docs/source/managed-federation/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Managed federation overview
---

[Apollo GraphOS](/graphos/) provides **managed federation** support for graphs that use Apollo Federation.

With managed federation, your subgraphs each publish their schemas to GraphOS, which verifies that they successfully [compose](../federated-types/composition/) into a supergraph schema.

On composition success, GraphOS updates your supergraph's latest configuration, which is available at a special endpoint (called the **uplink**) that your router regularly polls for updates:

```mermaid
graph LR;
  subgraph "Your infrastructure"
  serviceA[Products<br/>subgraph];
  serviceB[Reviews<br/>subgraph];
  router([Router]);
  end
  subgraph "Apollo GraphOS"
    registry{{Apollo Schema<br/>Registry}};
    uplink{{Apollo<br/>Uplink}}
  end
  serviceA & serviceB -->|Publishes<br/>schema| registry;
  registry -->|Updates<br/>config| uplink;
  router -->|Polls for config changes| uplink;
  class registry secondary;
  class uplink secondary;
```

## Benefits of managed federation

Managed federation helps your organization safely validate, coordinate, deploy, and monitor changes to your graph. It provides:

### Router stability

You can modify subgraph schemas (and even add or remove entire subgraphs) _without_ needing to modify or redeploy your router. Your router is the point of entry to your entire graph, and it should maximize its uptime.

### Composition stability

Whenever your router obtains an updated configuration from Apollo, it knows that the updated set of subgraph schemas will compose, because the configuration includes the composed supergraph schema.

The router _also_ knows that your subgraphs are prepared to handle operations against the updated set of schemas. This is because your subgraphs should publish their updated schemas as part of their deployment, meaning they're definitely running by the time the router is aware of the configuration change.

And whenever a subgraph accidentally pushes a schema change that _doesn't_ compose, GraphOS continues to provide the most recent _valid_ configuration to your router.

### Schema flexibility

By using a configuration manager that's external to your router, you help ensure the safety of certain schema changes. For example, if you want to migrate a type or field from one subgraph's schema to another, you can perform this migration safely _only_ if you externalize your configuration.

<hr/>

Ready to try it out? Continue to [Setup](./setup/).

Commit message:

Update content for uplink, setup, overview

docs/source/managed-federation/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Managed federation overview
description: Let Apollo GraphOS manage validating and composing your subgraph schemas into a federated, supergraph schema and configuration for your routers.
---

[Apollo GraphOS](/graphos/) provides **managed federation** support for graphs that use Apollo Federation.

With managed federation, you maintain subgraphs and routers while delegating GraphOS to manage the validation, composition, and update of your supergraph:

* Your subgraphs publish their schemas to GraphOS, which stores them in its schema registry, and GraphOS first [validates](./federated-schema-checks) them and then [composes](../federated-types/composition/) them into a supergraph schema. 

* Your routers can poll GraphOS&mdash;specifically, its [Apollo Uplink](./uplink) endpoint&mdash;to get the latest validated supergraph schema and other configuration.

```mermaid
graph LR;
  subgraph "Your infrastructure"
  serviceA[Products<br/>subgraph];
  serviceB[Reviews<br/>subgraph];
  router([Router]);
  end
  subgraph "Apollo GraphOS"
    registry{{Apollo Schema<br/>Registry}};
    uplink{{Apollo<br/>Uplink}}
  end
  serviceA & serviceB -->|Publishes<br/>schema| registry;
  registry -->|Updates<br/>config| uplink;
  router -->|Polls for config changes| uplink;
  class registry secondary;
  class uplink secondary;
```

## Benefits of managed federation

Managed federation helps your organization safely validate, coordinate, deploy, and monitor changes to your graph. It provides:

### Router stability

You can modify subgraph schemas (and even add or remove entire subgraphs) _without_ needing to modify or redeploy your router. Your router is the point of entry to your entire graph, and it should maximize its uptime.

### Composition stability

Whenever your router obtains an updated configuration from Apollo, it knows that the updated set of subgraph schemas will compose, because the configuration includes the composed supergraph schema.

The router _also_ knows that your subgraphs are prepared to handle operations against the updated set of schemas. This is because your subgraphs should publish their updated schemas as part of their deployment, meaning they're definitely running by the time the router is aware of the configuration change.

And whenever a subgraph accidentally pushes a schema change that _doesn't_ compose, GraphOS continues to provide the most recent _valid_ configuration to your router.

### Schema flexibility

By using a configuration manager that's external to your router, you help ensure the safety of certain schema changes. For example, if you want to migrate a type or field from one subgraph's schema to another, you can perform this migration safely _only_ if you externalize your configuration.

<hr/>

Ready to try it out? Continue to [Setup](./setup/).
