docs/source/managed-federation/setup.mdx, before:

---
title: Setting up managed federation
---

import ObtainGraphApiKey from '../../shared/obtain-graph-api-key.mdx';

This article describes how to connect your supergraph to [Apollo GraphOS](/graphos/) to enable managed federation features.

> As with all changes, you should first set up managed federation in a non-production environment, such as staging. To support this, you can create multiple [variants](/graphos/graphs/#variants) of your supergraph in GraphOS Studio. Each variant represents a distinct version of the same graph for different environments.

## 1. Get started

First, complete the **Set up Apollo tools** step from [this tutorial](/graphos/quickstart/self-hosted#1-set-up-apollo-tools), including:

- Creating an Apollo account
- Creating a graph in Studio
- Installing and authenticating the Rover CLI

Then return here.

## 2. Publish all subgraph schemas

In a supergraph architecture, each of your [subgraphs](../building-supergraphs/subgraphs-overview/) uses the Rover CLI to publish its schema to GraphOS:

```mermaid
graph LR;
  subgraph " "
  router([Router]);
  subgraphA[Products subgraph];
  subgraphB[Reviews subgraph];
  subgraphC[Inventory subgraph];
  end
  registry{{GraphOS<br/>Schema Registry}};
  router --- subgraphA & subgraphB & subgraphC;
  subgraphA & subgraphB & subgraphC -.->|<code>rover subgraph publish</code>| registry;
  class registry secondary;
```

**Do the following for each of your subgraphs**:

1. Obtain the following values, which are required for the `rover subgraph publish` command:

    * The name that uniquely identifies the subgraph within your graph (e.g., `products`).
    * The URL that your router will use to communicate with the subgraph (e.g., `http://products-graphql.svc.cluster.local:4001/`).

2. Run the `rover subgraph publish` command, providing it your subgraph's schema in one of the ways shown:

    ```bash
    # Provide a local .graphql file path
    rover subgraph publish my-graph@my-variant --name products --routing-url http://products-graphql.svc.cluster.local:4001/ --schema ./schema.graphql 

    # Provide an introspection result via stdin
    rover subgraph introspect http://localhost:4000 | rover subgraph publish my-graph@my-variant --name products --routing-url http://products-graphql.svc.cluster.local:4001/ --schema -
    ```

As you register your subgraph schemas, the schema registry attempts to **compose** their latest versions into a single **supergraph schema**. Whenever composition succeeds, your managed router can fetch the latest supergraph schema from GraphOS.

You can also manually fetch your latest supergraph schema with the `rover supergraph fetch` command, or retrieve it from your graph's **Schema > SDL** tab in GraphOS Studio.

## 3. Modify your router's startup command

<ExpansionPanel title="Using Apollo Gateway?">

If you've already set up Apollo Federation _without_ connecting your gateway to GraphOS, the constructor of your `ApolloGateway` instance probably includes a `supergraphSdl` option, like this:

```js {2}
const gateway = new ApolloGateway({
  supergraphSdl
});
```

This option is specific to _non_-managed federation, in which supergraph schema composition is performed via the Rover CLI.

With managed federation, composition is instead performed by _GraphOS_, and the gateway regularly polls for an updated schema. This enables you to add, remove, and modify your subgraphs _without_ needing to restart your gateway.

Remove the `supergraphSdl` argument from your `ApolloGateway` constructor entirely:

```js
const gateway = new ApolloGateway();
```

> When running your gateway in an environment where outbound traffic to the internet is restricted, consult the [directions for configuring a proxy](/apollo-server/security/proxy-configuration) within Apollo Server.

</ExpansionPanel>

If you've already set up Apollo Federation _without_ connecting your router to GraphOS, you're probably passing the `--supergraph` (or `-s`) option to the Apollo Router's startup command:

```sh
./router --config ./router.yaml --supergraph ./your-local-supergraph.graphql
```

The `--supergraph` option is specific to _non_-managed federation, in which supergraph schema composition is performed via the Rover CLI and provided via a file path.

_Remove_ the `--supergraph` option (but leave `--config` if it's present):

```sh
./router --config ./router.yaml
```

> With managed federation, composition is instead performed by _GraphOS_, and the router regularly polls for an updated schema. This enables you to add, remove, and modify your subgraphs _without_ needing to restart your router.


## 4. Connect your router to GraphOS

Like your subgraphs, your router uses a graph API key to identify itself to GraphOS.

<ObtainGraphApiKey />

After obtaining your graph API key, you set the following environment variables in your router's environment:

- `APOLLO_KEY` (set this to your graph API key)
- `APOLLO_GRAPH_REF`
    - This variable tells the router which variant of which graph to use (for example, `docs-example-graph@production`). You can find your variant's graph ref at the very top of its README page in GraphOS Studio.

## 5. Deploy the modified router

You can now deploy your modified router, which will fetch its supergraph schema from GraphOS on startup. It can then begin executing operations across your subgraphs.

Commit message:

WIP: update docs for blue-green deploys

docs/source/managed-federation/setup.mdx, after:

---
title: Setting up managed federation
---

import ObtainGraphApiKey from '../../shared/obtain-graph-api-key.mdx';

This article describes how to connect your supergraph to [Apollo GraphOS](/graphos/) to enable managed federation features.

> As with all changes, you should first set up managed federation in a non-production environment, such as staging. To support this, you can create multiple [variants](/graphos/graphs/#variants) of your supergraph in GraphOS Studio. Each variant represents a distinct version of the same graph for different environments.

## 1. Get started

First, complete the **Set up Apollo tools** step from [this tutorial](/graphos/quickstart/self-hosted#1-set-up-apollo-tools), including:

- Creating an Apollo account
- Creating a graph in Studio
- Installing and authenticating the Rover CLI

## 2. Publish all subgraph schemas

In a supergraph architecture, each of your [subgraphs](../building-supergraphs/subgraphs-overview/) uses the Rover CLI to publish its schema to GraphOS:

```mermaid
graph LR;
  subgraph " "
  router([Router]);
  subgraphA[Products subgraph];
  subgraphB[Reviews subgraph];
  subgraphC[Inventory subgraph];
  end
  registry{{GraphOS<br/>Schema Registry}};
  router --- subgraphA & subgraphB & subgraphC;
  subgraphA & subgraphB & subgraphC -.->|<code>rover subgraph publish</code>| registry;
  class registry secondary;
```

**Do the following for each of your subgraphs**:

1. Obtain the following values, which are required for the `rover subgraph publish` command:

    * The name that uniquely identifies the subgraph within your graph (e.g., `products`).
    * The URL that your router will use to communicate with the subgraph (e.g., `http://products-graphql.svc.cluster.local:4001/`).

2. Run the `rover subgraph publish` command, providing it your subgraph's schema in one of the ways shown:

    ```bash
    # Provide a local .graphql file path
    rover subgraph publish my-graph@my-variant --name products --routing-url http://products-graphql.svc.cluster.local:4001/ --schema ./schema.graphql 

    # Provide an introspection result via stdin
    rover subgraph introspect http://localhost:4000 | rover subgraph publish my-graph@my-variant --name products --routing-url http://products-graphql.svc.cluster.local:4001/ --schema -
    ```

As you register your subgraph schemas, the schema registry attempts to **compose** their latest versions into a single **supergraph schema**. Whenever composition succeeds, your managed router can fetch the latest supergraph schema from GraphOS.

You can also manually fetch your latest supergraph schema with the `rover supergraph fetch` command, or retrieve it from your graph's **Schema > SDL** tab in GraphOS Studio.

## 3. Modify your router's startup command

<ExpansionPanel title="Using Apollo Gateway?">

If you've already set up Apollo Federation _without_ connecting your gateway to GraphOS, the constructor of your `ApolloGateway` instance probably includes a `supergraphSdl` option, like this:

```js {2}
const gateway = new ApolloGateway({
  supergraphSdl
});
```

This option is specific to _non_-managed federation, in which supergraph schema composition is performed via the Rover CLI.

With managed federation, composition can instead be performed by _GraphOS_, where the gateway regularly polls for an updated schema. This enables you to add, remove, and modify your subgraphs _without_ needing to restart your gateway.

Remove the `supergraphSdl` argument from your `ApolloGateway` constructor entirely:

```js
const gateway = new ApolloGateway();
```

When running your gateway in an environment where outbound traffic to the internet is restricted, consult the [directions for configuring a proxy](/apollo-server/security/proxy-configuration) within Apollo Server.

</ExpansionPanel>

If you've already set up Apollo Federation _without_ connecting your router to GraphOS, you're probably passing the [`--supergraph` (or `-s`) option](/router/configuration/overview/#-s----supergraph) to the Apollo Router's startup command:

```sh
./router --config ./router.yaml --supergraph ./your-local-supergraph.graphql
```

The `--supergraph` option applies in scenarios where the supergraph schema for the router isn't retrieved by polling Apollo Uplink:

* For enabling different production environments (such as blue-green deployments) to refer to a single graph variant, the supergraph schema for each production environment is composed via GraphOS and calling Platform APIs, then retrieved from GraphOS and saved, so that its file path can be specified when deploying the router within the corresponding environment. 

* For fully unmanaged federation, the Rover CLI composes the supergraph schema, and the file path of the schema is passed to the router. 

For other scenarios where the supergraph schema is gotten from Apollo Uplink, _remove_ the `--supergraph` option (but leave `--config` if it's present):

```sh
./router --config ./router.yaml
```

> With managed federation, composition can be performed by _GraphOS_, and the router regularly polls for an updated schema from Apollo Uplink. This enables you to add, remove, and modify your subgraphs _without_ needing to restart your router.


## 4. Connect your router to GraphOS

Like your subgraphs, your router uses a graph API key to identify itself to GraphOS.

<ObtainGraphApiKey />

After obtaining your graph API key, you set the following environment variables in your router's environment:

- `APOLLO_KEY` (set this to your graph API key)
- `APOLLO_GRAPH_REF`
    - This variable tells the router which variant of which graph to use (for example, `docs-example-graph@production`). You can find your variant's graph ref at the very top of its README page in GraphOS Studio.

## 5. Deploy the modified router

You can now deploy your modified router, which will fetch its supergraph schema from GraphOS on startup. It can then begin executing operations across your subgraphs.
