README.md, before:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apollographql/space-kit/main/src/illustrations/svgs/rocket1.svg" width="100%" height="144">

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/apollographql/federation/tree/main.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/apollographql/federation/tree/main) [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/3a012f93-2d02-41f7-bb2b-848cf005b831/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/apollo-federation-docs/deploys)

# Apollo Federation

Apollo Federation is an architecture for declaratively composing APIs into a unified graph. Each team can own their slice of the graph independently, empowering them to deliver autonomously and incrementally.

Federation 2 is an evolution of the original Apollo Federation with an improved shared ownership model, enhanced type merging, and cleaner syntax for a smoother developer experience. It’s backwards compatible, requiring no major changes to your subgraphs.

Checkout the [Federation 2 docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation) and [demo repo](https://github.com/apollographql/supergraph-demo-fed2) to take it for a spin and [let us know what you think](https://community.apollographql.com/t/announcing-apollo-federation-2/1821)!

For Federation 1, see the [docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/v1) and [code](https://github.com/apollographql/federation/tree/version-0.x).

Checkout the [project roadmap](ROADMAP.md) to see what's coming next!

## Contributing

If this project seems like something to which you want to contribute, first off **thank you**. We are so excited that you are excited about this project and we want to make sure contributing is a safe, fun, and fruitful experience for you. Please read our [code of conduct](https://github.com/apollographql/.github/blob/HEAD/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and then head on over to the [contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how to work on this project.

If you ever have any problems, questions, or ideas, the maintainers of this project are available to help.  Please open an issue for assistance!

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apollographql/space-kit/main/src/illustrations/svgs/telescope.svg" width="100%" height="144">

### Current branches

1. **Federation 2** is the current `main` branch. Installing `latest` from npm is the most recent published code from `main`.
2. **Prior releases** are located under the `version-0.x` branch. This comprises all 0.x packages previously released. Installing `latest-1` from npm is the most recent published code from `version-0.x`.

## Who is Apollo?

[Apollo](https://apollographql.com/) builds open-source tools and commercial services to make application development easier, better, and accessible to more people. We help you ship faster with:

* [GraphOS](https://www.apollographql.com/graphos) - The platform for building, managing, and scaling a supergraph: a unified network of your organization's microservices and their data sources—all composed into a single distributed API.
* [Apollo Federation](https://www.apollographql.com/federation) – The industry-standard open architecture for building a distributed graph. Use Apollo’s gateway to compose a unified graph from multiple subgraphs, determine a query plan, and route requests across your services.
* [Apollo Client](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-client) – The most popular GraphQL client for the web. Apollo also builds and maintains [Apollo iOS](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-ios) and [Apollo Kotlin](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-kotlin).
* [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/) – A production-ready JavaScript GraphQL server that connects to any microservice, API, or database. Compatible with all popular JavaScript frameworks and deployable in serverless environments.

## Learn how to build with Apollo

Check out the [Odyssey](https://odyssey.apollographql.com/) learning platform, the perfect place to start your GraphQL journey with videos and interactive code challenges. Join the [Apollo Community](https://community.apollographql.com/) to interact with and get technical help from the GraphQL community.

## Licensing

Source code in this repository is covered by (i) the Elastic License 2.0 or (ii) an MIT compatible license, in each case, as designated by a licensing file in a subdirectory or file header. The default throughout the repository is a license under the Elastic License 2.0, unless a file header or a licensing file in a subdirectory specifies another license.

Commit message:

Update README.md with summit callout
Adding a short announcement one-liner to bring visibility to GraphQL Summit

README.md, after:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apollographql/space-kit/main/src/illustrations/svgs/rocket1.svg" width="100%" height="144">

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/apollographql/federation/tree/main.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/apollographql/federation/tree/main) [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/3a012f93-2d02-41f7-bb2b-848cf005b831/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/apollo-federation-docs/deploys)

---

**Announcement:**   
Join 1000+ engineers at GraphQL Summit for talks, workshops, and office hours, Oct 8-10 in NYC. [Get your pass here ->](https://summit.graphql.com/?utm_campaign=github_federation_readme)

---

# Apollo Federation

Apollo Federation is an architecture for declaratively composing APIs into a unified graph. Each team can own their slice of the graph independently, empowering them to deliver autonomously and incrementally.

Federation 2 is an evolution of the original Apollo Federation with an improved shared ownership model, enhanced type merging, and cleaner syntax for a smoother developer experience. It’s backwards compatible, requiring no major changes to your subgraphs.

Checkout the [Federation 2 docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation) and [demo repo](https://github.com/apollographql/supergraph-demo-fed2) to take it for a spin and [let us know what you think](https://community.apollographql.com/t/announcing-apollo-federation-2/1821)!

For Federation 1, see the [docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/v1) and [code](https://github.com/apollographql/federation/tree/version-0.x).

Checkout the [project roadmap](ROADMAP.md) to see what's coming next!

## Contributing

If this project seems like something to which you want to contribute, first off **thank you**. We are so excited that you are excited about this project and we want to make sure contributing is a safe, fun, and fruitful experience for you. Please read our [code of conduct](https://github.com/apollographql/.github/blob/HEAD/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and then head on over to the [contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how to work on this project.

If you ever have any problems, questions, or ideas, the maintainers of this project are available to help.  Please open an issue for assistance!

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apollographql/space-kit/main/src/illustrations/svgs/telescope.svg" width="100%" height="144">

### Current branches

1. **Federation 2** is the current `main` branch. Installing `latest` from npm is the most recent published code from `main`.
2. **Prior releases** are located under the `version-0.x` branch. This comprises all 0.x packages previously released. Installing `latest-1` from npm is the most recent published code from `version-0.x`.

## Who is Apollo?

[Apollo](https://apollographql.com/) builds open-source tools and commercial services to make application development easier, better, and accessible to more people. We help you ship faster with:

* [GraphOS](https://www.apollographql.com/graphos) - The platform for building, managing, and scaling a supergraph: a unified network of your organization's microservices and their data sources—all composed into a single distributed API.
* [Apollo Federation](https://www.apollographql.com/federation) – The industry-standard open architecture for building a distributed graph. Use Apollo’s gateway to compose a unified graph from multiple subgraphs, determine a query plan, and route requests across your services.
* [Apollo Client](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-client) – The most popular GraphQL client for the web. Apollo also builds and maintains [Apollo iOS](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-ios) and [Apollo Kotlin](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-kotlin).
* [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/) – A production-ready JavaScript GraphQL server that connects to any microservice, API, or database. Compatible with all popular JavaScript frameworks and deployable in serverless environments.

## Learn how to build with Apollo

Check out the [Odyssey](https://odyssey.apollographql.com/) learning platform, the perfect place to start your GraphQL journey with videos and interactive code challenges. Join the [Apollo Community](https://community.apollographql.com/) to interact with and get technical help from the GraphQL community.

## Licensing

Source code in this repository is covered by (i) the Elastic License 2.0 or (ii) an MIT compatible license, in each case, as designated by a licensing file in a subdirectory or file header. The default throughout the repository is a license under the Elastic License 2.0, unless a file header or a licensing file in a subdirectory specifies another license.
