docs/source/entities.mdx, before:

---
title: Entities in Apollo Federation
description: Resolve types across multiple subgraphs
---

> ⚠️ Some details of entity behavior have changed in Federation 2. For a summary of these changes, [see what's new](./federation-2/new-in-federation-2/).

In a supergraph, an **entity** is an object type that can resolve its fields across multiple subgraphs. Each subgraph can contribute different fields to the entity and is responsible for resolving only the fields that it contributes.

For example, this `Product` entity's fields are defined and resolved across two subgraphs:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

```graphql title="Inventory subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  inStock: Boolean!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

Entities are a fundamental building block of Apollo Federation that enable subgraphs to adhere to the [separation of concerns principle](./#separation-of-concerns).

> Entities are always _object_ types (never input types, unions, and so on).

## Defining an entity

To define an entity within a particular subgraph, you do the following:

1. Apply the [`@key` directive](#1-define-a-key) to an object type.
2. Define the object type's [reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver).

These steps are described below.

### 1. Define a `@key`

In a subgraph schema, you can designate any existing object type as an entity by adding the `@key` directive to its definition, like so:

```graphql {1} title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

The `@key` directive defines the entity's **primary key**, which consists of one or more of the type's `fields`. In the example above, the `Product` entity's primary key is its `id` field.

**Every instance of an entity must be uniquely identifiable by its `@key` fields.** This is what enables your router to associate field data from _different_ subgraphs with the _same_ entity instance.

> **An entity's `@key` _cannot_ include:**
>
> * Fields that return a union or interface
> * Fields that take arguments
>
> [See advanced options for `@key`s.](./entities-advanced/#advanced-keys)

### 2. Define a reference resolver

The `@key` directive effectively tells the router, "This subgraph can resolve an instance of this entity if you provide its primary key." In order for this to be true, the subgraph needs to define a **reference resolver** for the entity.

> ⚠️ **This section describes how to create reference resolvers in Apollo Server.** If you're using another [subgraph-compatible library](./building-supergraphs/supported-subgraphs/), see its documentation for creating reference resolvers (or the equivalent functionality).

For the `Product` entity defined [above](#1-define-a-key), the reference resolver might look like this:

```js {4-6} title="resolvers.js"
// Products subgraph
const resolvers = {
  Product: {
    __resolveReference(productRepresentation) {
      return fetchProductByID(productRepresentation.id);
    }
  },
  // ...other resolvers...
}
```

Let's break this example down:

* You declare an entity's reference resolver in your resolver map, as a member of the entity's corresponding object.
* A reference resolver's name is always `__resolveReference`.
* A reference resolver's first parameter is a **representation** of the entity being resolved.
    * An entity representation is an object that contains the entity's `@key` fields, plus its `__typename` field. These values are automatically provided to your subgraph by your router.
* A reference resolver is responsible for returning all of the entity fields that this subgraph defines.
    * In this example, the hypothetical `fetchProductByID` function fetches a particular `Product`'s field data based on its `id`.

> ⚠️ **A particular reference resolver might be called _many_ times to resolve a single query!** It's crucial that reference resolvers account for "N+1" issues (typically via [data loaders](https://github.com/graphql/dataloader)). For details, see [Handling the N+1 problem](./entities-advanced#handling-the-n1-problem).

Every subgraph that contributes at least one unique field to an entity **must** define a reference resolver for that entity.

> To learn more about `__resolveReference` in Apollo Server, see the [API docs](/apollo-server/using-federation/api/apollo-subgraph/#__resolvereference).

## Contributing entity fields

Any number of different subgraphs can contribute fields to an entity definition. Below, the Products and Inventory subgraphs contribute different fields to the `Product` entity:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

```graphql title="Inventory subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  inStock: Boolean!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

When a subgraph contributes entity fields, no _other_ subgraph knows about those fields—only the router does thanks to the composed supergraph schema.

By default, each subgraph must contribute _different_ fields, with the important exception of `@key` fields. Otherwise, a composition error occurs. To override this default, see [Resolving another subgraph's field](./entities-advanced/#resolving-another-subgraphs-field).

As mentioned previously, each subgraph that _does_ contribute fields to an entity must [define a reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver) for that entity.

## Referencing an entity without contributing fields

Your subgraphs can use an entity as a field's return type _without_ contributing any fields to that entity. This requires less code than the steps in [Defining an entity](#defining-an-entity).

Take a look at this `Product` entity in the Products subgraph:

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

Now, let's say we want to create a Reviews subgraph that includes the following `Review` type:

```graphql {2} title="Reviews subgraph"
type Review {
  product: Product!
  score: Int!
}
```

This is possible! However, this subgraph schema is currently invalid because it doesn't define the `Product` entity.

To fix this, we can add a **stub** of the `Product` entity to the Reviews schema, like so:

```graphql {6-8} title="Reviews subgraph"
type Review {
  product: Product!
  score: Int!
}

type Product @key(fields: "id", resolvable: false) {
  id: ID!
}
```

As you can see, this stub definition includes _only_ the `@key` fields of `Product` (just `id` in this case). It also includes `resolvable: false` in the `@key` directive to indicate that this subgraph doesn't even define a reference resolver for the `Product` entity.

## Example query flow

To help understand how entities are resolved across subgraphs, let's look at an example query executed on an example supergraph.

Let's say we have these two subgraphs that both define the `Product` entity:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

```graphql title="Reviews subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id", resolvable: false) {
  id: ID!
}

type Review {
  score: Int!
  description: String!
  product: Product!
}

type Query {
  latestReviews: [Review!]!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

> Notice that the Reviews subgraph [references the `Product` entity without contributing fields](#referencing-an-entity-without-contributing-fields).

The Reviews subgraph defines one entry point into our schema: `Query.latestReviews`. This means that the following query is valid against our router:

```graphql {6}
query GetReviewsWithProducts {
  latestReviews { # Defined in Reviews
    score
    product {
      id
      price # ⚠️ NOT defined in Reviews!
    }
  }
}
```

Here we have a problem: this query needs to start its execution in the Reviews subgraph (because that's where `latestReviews` is defined), but that subgraph _doesn't_ know that `Product` entities have a `price` field! Remember, the Reviews subgraph only knows about the `id` field of `Product`.

Because of this, the router needs to fetch `price` from the Products subgraph instead. To handle this two-step process, the router generates a **query plan**.

### The query plan

> Query plans are automatically generated and carried out by your router. You don't need to write any code related to them.

A query plan is a blueprint for dividing a single incoming operation into one or more operations that are each resolvable by a single subgraph. Your router generates a query plan for each unique operation that it receives from clients.

With our example query above, the router knows the following:

* It _must_ start by querying the Reviews subgraph, because that's where `Query.latestReviews` is defined.
* It _must_ then query the Products subgraph to fetch the `price` of each `Product` returned by the Reviews subgraph.

Using this information, the router's query plan starts with this query to the Reviews subgraph:

```graphql {5}
query {
  latestReviews {
    score
    product {
      __typename
      id
    }
  }
}
```

Notice that this query omits the `Product.price` field but _adds_ the `Product.__typename` field! This is because the router needs **representations** of each returned `Product` entity for its _second_ query.

> As described in [Define a reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver), an entity representation is an object that contains the entity's `@key` fields (`id` in this case), plus its `__typename` field.

This first query returns a list of `Review` objects, each containing a `Product` representation. With these representations, the router can execute its second query, this time on the Products subgraph:

```graphql
query {
  _entities(representations: [...]) {
    ... on Product {
      price
    }
  }
}
```

This query uses a special entry point that's automatically added to every subgraph schema: `Query._entities`. This entry point is what provides the router with direct access to any entity's fields.

Each item in the `representations` list argument above is one of the `Product` representations that the router obtained from its _first_ query. Here's an example list:

```json
[
  {
    "__typename": "Product",
    "id": "1"
  },
  {
    "__typename": "Product",
    "id": "2"
  },
  //...
]
```

These representations are passed individually to the `Product` [reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver) in the Products subgraph. When the reference resolver finishes returning values for each representation, the router receives its response:

```json
[
  {
    "price": 100
  },
  {
    "price": 200
  },
  //...
]
```

Nice! The router can merge this `price` data with the `Product` objects returned by its first query. After doing so, the router returns a single, combined result to the client.

> [Learn more about query plans.](./query-plans/)

## Advanced topics

See [Advanced topics on federated entities](./entities-advanced).

Commit message:

Update entities key examples
Feedback from customer that the docs were a little confusing to beginners

docs/source/entities.mdx, after:

---
title: Entities in Apollo Federation
description: Resolve types across multiple subgraphs
---

> ⚠️ Some details of entity behavior have changed in Federation 2. For a summary of these changes, [see what's new](./federation-2/new-in-federation-2/).

In a supergraph, an **entity** is an object type that can resolve its fields across multiple subgraphs. Each subgraph can contribute different fields to the entity and is responsible for resolving only the fields that it contributes.

For example, this `Product` entity's fields are defined and resolved across two subgraphs:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

```graphql title="Inventory subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  inStock: Boolean!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

Entities are a fundamental building block of Apollo Federation that enable subgraphs to adhere to the [separation of concerns principle](./#separation-of-concerns).

> Entities are always _object_ types (never input types, unions, and so on).

## Defining an entity

To define an entity within a particular subgraph, you do the following:

1. Apply the [`@key` directive](#1-define-a-key) to an object type.
2. Define the object type's [reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver).

These steps are described below.

### 1. Define a `@key`

In a subgraph schema, you can designate any existing object type as an entity by adding the `@key` directive to its definition, like so:

```graphql {1} title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

The `@key` directive defines the entity's **primary key**, which consists of one or more of the type's `fields`. In the example above, the `Product` entity's primary key is its `id` field.

**Every definition of an entity across subgraphs must be uniquely identifiable by its `@key` fields.** This is what enables your router to associate field data from _different_ subgraphs with the _same_ entity instance. i.e. If one subgraph marks the key as `id` and another uses `name`, the router will not be able to join those instances together.

> **An entity's `@key` _cannot_ include:**
>
> * Fields that return a union or interface
> * Fields that take arguments
>

For more info on how to define multiple keys or compound keys, [see advanced options for federation entities.](./entities-advanced)

### 2. Define a reference resolver

The `@key` directive effectively tells the router, "This subgraph can resolve an instance of this entity if you provide its primary key." In order for this to be true, the subgraph needs to define a **reference resolver** for the entity.

> ⚠️ **This section describes how to create reference resolvers in Apollo Server.** If you're using another [subgraph-compatible library](./building-supergraphs/supported-subgraphs/), see its documentation for creating reference resolvers (or the equivalent functionality).

For the `Product` entity defined [above](#1-define-a-key), the reference resolver might look like this:

```js {4-6} title="resolvers.js"
// Products subgraph
const resolvers = {
  Product: {
    __resolveReference(productRepresentation) {
      return fetchProductByID(productRepresentation.id);
    }
  },
  // ...other resolvers...
}
```

Let's break this example down:

* You declare an entity's reference resolver in your resolver map, as a member of the entity's corresponding object.
* A reference resolver's name is always `__resolveReference`.
* A reference resolver's first parameter is a **representation** of the entity being resolved.
    * An entity representation is an object that contains the entity's `@key` fields, plus its `__typename` field. These values are automatically provided to your subgraph by your router.
* A reference resolver is responsible for returning all of the entity fields that this subgraph defines.
    * In this example, the hypothetical `fetchProductByID` function fetches a particular `Product`'s field data based on its `id`.

> ⚠️ **A particular reference resolver might be called _many_ times to resolve a single query!** It's crucial that reference resolvers account for "N+1" issues (typically via [data loaders](https://github.com/graphql/dataloader)). For details, see [Handling the N+1 problem](./entities-advanced#handling-the-n1-problem).

Every subgraph that contributes at least one unique field to an entity **must** define a reference resolver for that entity.

> To learn more about `__resolveReference` in Apollo Server, see the [API docs](/apollo-server/using-federation/api/apollo-subgraph/#__resolvereference).

## Contributing entity fields

Any number of different subgraphs can contribute fields to an entity definition. Below, the Products and Inventory subgraphs contribute different fields to the `Product` entity:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

```graphql title="Inventory subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  inStock: Boolean!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

When a subgraph contributes entity fields, no _other_ subgraph knows about those fields—only the router does thanks to the composed supergraph schema.

By default, each subgraph must contribute _different_ fields, with the important exception of `@key` fields. Otherwise, a composition error occurs. To override this default, see [Resolving another subgraph's field](./entities-advanced/#resolving-another-subgraphs-field).

As mentioned previously, each subgraph that _does_ contribute fields to an entity must [define a reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver) for that entity.

## Referencing an entity without contributing fields

Your subgraphs can use an entity as a field's return type _without_ contributing any fields to that entity. This requires less code than the steps in [Defining an entity](#defining-an-entity).

Take a look at this `Product` entity in the Products subgraph:

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

Now, let's say we want to create a Reviews subgraph that includes the following `Review` type:

```graphql {2} title="Reviews subgraph"
type Review {
  product: Product!
  score: Int!
}
```

This is possible! However, this subgraph schema is currently invalid because it doesn't define the `Product` entity.

To fix this, we can add a **stub** of the `Product` entity to the Reviews schema, like so:

```graphql {6-8} title="Reviews subgraph"
type Review {
  product: Product!
  score: Int!
}

type Product @key(fields: "id", resolvable: false) {
  id: ID!
}
```

As you can see, this stub definition includes _only_ the `@key` fields of `Product` (just `id` in this case). It also includes `resolvable: false` in the `@key` directive to indicate that this subgraph doesn't even define a reference resolver for the `Product` entity.

## Example query flow

To help understand how entities are resolved across subgraphs, let's look at an example query executed on an example supergraph.

Let's say we have these two subgraphs that both define the `Product` entity:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  price: Int
}
```

```graphql title="Reviews subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "id", resolvable: false) {
  id: ID!
}

type Review {
  score: Int!
  description: String!
  product: Product!
}

type Query {
  latestReviews: [Review!]!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

> Notice that the Reviews subgraph [references the `Product` entity without contributing fields](#referencing-an-entity-without-contributing-fields).

The Reviews subgraph defines one entry point into our schema: `Query.latestReviews`. This means that the following query is valid against our router:

```graphql {6}
query GetReviewsWithProducts {
  latestReviews { # Defined in Reviews
    score
    product {
      id
      price # ⚠️ NOT defined in Reviews!
    }
  }
}
```

Here we have a problem: this query needs to start its execution in the Reviews subgraph (because that's where `latestReviews` is defined), but that subgraph _doesn't_ know that `Product` entities have a `price` field! Remember, the Reviews subgraph only knows about the `id` field of `Product`.

Because of this, the router needs to fetch `price` from the Products subgraph instead. To handle this two-step process, the router generates a **query plan**.

### The query plan

> Query plans are automatically generated and carried out by your router. You don't need to write any code related to them.

A query plan is a blueprint for dividing a single incoming operation into one or more operations that are each resolvable by a single subgraph. Your router generates a query plan for each unique operation that it receives from clients.

With our example query above, the router knows the following:

* It _must_ start by querying the Reviews subgraph, because that's where `Query.latestReviews` is defined.
* It _must_ then query the Products subgraph to fetch the `price` of each `Product` returned by the Reviews subgraph.

Using this information, the router's query plan starts with this query to the Reviews subgraph:

```graphql {5}
query {
  latestReviews {
    score
    product {
      __typename
      id
    }
  }
}
```

Notice that this query omits the `Product.price` field but _adds_ the `Product.__typename` field! This is because the router needs **representations** of each returned `Product` entity for its _second_ query.

> As described in [Define a reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver), an entity representation is an object that contains the entity's `@key` fields (`id` in this case), plus its `__typename` field.

This first query returns a list of `Review` objects, each containing a `Product` representation. With these representations, the router can execute its second query, this time on the Products subgraph:

```graphql
query {
  _entities(representations: [...]) {
    ... on Product {
      price
    }
  }
}
```

This query uses a special entry point that's automatically added to every subgraph schema: `Query._entities`. This entry point is what provides the router with direct access to any entity's fields.

Each item in the `representations` list argument above is one of the `Product` representations that the router obtained from its _first_ query. Here's an example list:

```json
[
  {
    "__typename": "Product",
    "id": "1"
  },
  {
    "__typename": "Product",
    "id": "2"
  },
  //...
]
```

These representations are passed individually to the `Product` [reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver) in the Products subgraph. When the reference resolver finishes returning values for each representation, the router receives its response:

```json
[
  {
    "price": 100
  },
  {
    "price": 200
  },
  //...
]
```

Nice! The router can merge this `price` data with the `Product` objects returned by its first query. After doing so, the router returns a single, combined result to the client.

> [Learn more about query plans.](./query-plans/)

## Advanced topics

See [Advanced topics on federated entities](./entities-advanced).
