docs/source/hints.mdx, before:

---
title: Composition hints
---

When you successfully [compose](./federated-types/composition) the schemas provided by your [subgraphs](./building-supergraphs/subgraphs-overview/) into a supergraph schema, the composition process can flag potential improvements. Specifically, composition can output violations of the [GraphOS schema linter's](/graphos/delivery/schema-linter) [composition rules](/graphos/delivery/linter-rules#composition-rules) in GraphOS Studio or via the [Rover CLI](/rover/).

The [`rover subgraph check`](/rover/commands/subgraphs#subgraph-check) command outputs rule violations with the [severity levels](/graphos/delivery/schema-linter/#setting-severity-levels) you've configured for your graph variant. The [`rover supergraph compose`](/rover/commands/supergraphs#supergraph-compose) command outputs rule violations for all local subgraph schemas. 

See below for a list of composition rules categorized by rule type. The heading for each rule is the code that GraphOS returns for the rule violation. Refer to the [rules reference page](/graphos/delivery/linter-rules) for a comprehensive list of linter rules.

### Inconsistent elements

<InconsistentCompositionRules />

### Overridden and unused elements

<OverriddenCompositionRules />

### Directives

<DirectiveCompositionRules />

Commit message:

Specify minVersion for composition hints

docs/source/hints.mdx, after:

---
title: Composition hints
---

When you successfully [compose](./federated-types/composition) the schemas provided by your [subgraphs](./building-supergraphs/subgraphs-overview/) into a supergraph schema, the composition process can flag potential improvements or **hints**. Hints are violations of the [GraphOS schema linter's](/graphos/delivery/schema-linter) [composition rules](/graphos/delivery/linter-rules#composition-rules). You can review them on the [Checks](/graphos/delivery/schema-checks) page in GraphOS Studio or via the [Rover CLI](/rover/).

> Composition hints only appear in GraphOS Studio and via the `rover subgraph check` command for graphs on [federation version `2.4`](/federation/federation-versions/#v24) or later. You can update a graph's version from its **Settings** page in [GraphOS Studio](https://studio.apollographql.com?referrer=docs-content).

The [`rover subgraph check`](/rover/commands/subgraphs#subgraph-check) command outputs rule violations with the [severity levels](/graphos/delivery/schema-linter/#setting-severity-levels) you've configured for your graph variant. The [`rover supergraph compose`](/rover/commands/supergraphs#supergraph-compose) command outputs rule violations for _all_ local subgraph schemas.

See below for a list of composition rules categorized by rule type. The heading for each rule is the code that GraphOS returns for the rule violation. Refer to the [rules reference page](/graphos/delivery/linter-rules) for a comprehensive list of linter rules.

### Inconsistent elements

<InconsistentCompositionRules />

### Overridden and unused elements

<OverriddenCompositionRules />

### Directives

<DirectiveCompositionRules />
