docs/source/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to Apollo Federation
subtitle: Learn how to combine your GraphQL APIs into a unified supergraph
description: Learn how Apollo Federation can help you declaratively combine your GraphQL APIs into a unified, federated supergraph using a microservices architecture
---

## What is Apollo Federation?

**Apollo Federation** lets you declaratively combine multiple GraphQL APIs into a unified graph. This enables clients to interact with multiple APIs through a single request.

A client makes a request to the single entry point of the federated graph called the **router**. The router intelligently orchestrates and distributes the request across your APIs and returns a unified response. For a client, the request and response cycle of querying the router looks the same as querying any GraphQL server.

```mermaid
graph LR;
  clients(Clients);
  router([Router]);
  serviceA[GraphQL API <br/>A];
  serviceB[GraphQL API <br/>B];
  serviceC[GraphQL API <br/>C];
  router --- serviceA & serviceB & serviceC;
  clients -.- router;
  class clients secondary;
```

## Benefits of federation

### Microservices architecture

Apollo Federation lets API teams operate in a [microservices architecture](https://www.atlassian.com/microservices/microservices-architecture/microservices-vs-monolith) while exposing a unified GraphQL API to clients. Understanding these concepts can help you get the most out of federation.

<Tip>

- Learn more about the [considerations and benefits of GraphQL](/intro/benefits/).
- Learn more about the [considerations and benefits of microservices architecture](https://aws.amazon.com/compare/the-difference-between-monolithic-and-microservices-architecture/).

</Tip>

### Preserve client simplicity and performance

A client may need to make multiple fetches when interacting with multiple non-federated GraphQL APIs. This can happen within an organization adopting GraphQL that has multiple teams developing independently. Each team sets up a GraphQL API that provides the data used by that team. For example, a travel app may have separate GraphQL APIs for users, flights, and hotels:

```mermaid
graph RL;
  subgraph " ";
    databaseA[(User<br/>data)];
    serviceA[Users API];
    databaseA --- serviceA;
  end;

  subgraph " ";
    databaseB[(Flight<br/>data)];
    serviceB[Flights API];
    databaseB --- serviceB;
  end;

  subgraph " ";
    databaseC[(Hotel<br/>data)];
    serviceC[Hotels API];
    databaseC --- serviceC;
  end;

  clients(Clients);
  serviceA & serviceB & serviceC -.- clients;
  class clients secondary;
```

By exposing multiple GraphQL APIs to a client, it might need to communicate with _multiple_ APIs to fetch its data. With a single federated graph, you preserve a powerful advantage of GraphQL over traditional REST APIs: the ability to fetch all the data you need in a single request.

```mermaid
graph LR;
  clients(Clients);
  subgraph supergraph[" "];
  router([Router]);
  serviceA[Users API];
  serviceB[Flights API];
  serviceC[Hotels API];
  databaseA[(Users<br/>data)];
  databaseB[(Flights<br/>data)];
  databaseC[(Hotels<br/>data)];
  serviceA --- databaseA;
  serviceB --- databaseB;
  serviceC --- databaseC;
  router --- serviceA & serviceB & serviceC;
  end;
  clients -.- router;
  class clients secondary;
```

Federation makes this possible because the router serves to orchestrate incoming operations, not to resolve each of them completely.
Clients should only query the router, and only the router should query the constituent APIs.
No client-side configuration is required.

### Design schemas at scale

Some alternative approaches to combining GraphQL APIs impose limits on your schema, like adding namespaces or representing relationships with IDs instead of types. With these approaches, your individual GraphQL API schemas may look unchanged—but the resulting federated schema that clients interact with is more complex. Subsequently, it requires you to make frontend as well as backend changes.

With Apollo Federation, clients can interact with the federated schema as if it were a monolith. Consumers of your API shouldn't know or care that it's implemented as microservices.

### Maintain a single API

With federation, every team maintaining a GraphQL API contributes directly to the overall federated schema. Instead of every team needing to manage its own graph layer, each team can be responsible for its slice of the API. When your entire organization contributes to the same graph, each team doesn't need to worry about maintaining its unique API.

In this structure, the "graph team" might be a separate team dedicated to maintaining your router as part of the backend infrastructure, or it might be a "meta team" that includes representatives from other teams that maintain individual services.

## Next steps

Before continuing, it's helpful to know some terminology:

- When combining multiple GraphQL APIs, the single, federated graph is called a **supergraph**.
- In a supergraph, the individual GraphQL APIs are called **subgraphs**.

```mermaid
graph LR;
  clients(Clients);
  router([Router]);
  subgraph "Supergraph"
  serviceA[Subgraph <br/>A];
  serviceB[Subgraph <br/>B];
  serviceC[Subgraph <br/>C];
  router --- serviceA & serviceB & serviceC;
  end
  clients -.- router;
  class clients secondary;
```

Different subgraphs in the same supergraph can use different server libraries as long as they are [federation-compatible](./building-supergraphs/supported-subgraphs/).

<Tip>

- Learn more about [choosing subgraph libraries](./building-supergraphs/subgraphs-overview#choosing-a-subgraph-library).
- Learn more about [your router options](./building-supergraphs/router).

</Tip>

### Additional resources

Depending on your goals, you have several options for learning more about federation: 
- If you're new to federated architecture, this [overview article](https://graphql.com/learn/federated-architecture/) can familiarize the concepts.
- If you'd like to recap key concepts of Apollo Federation, the video below gives a great overview.

    <ExpansionPanel title="Watch the video overview">

    <YouTube youTubeId="wRExDdgs6JU" />

    </ExpansionPanel>

- If you learn best by doing, this [interactive course](https://www.apollographql.com/tutorials/voyage-part1) teaches you to build an example supergraph using Apollo Federation.

### Further documentation

Once you're ready to apply federation to your own APIs, these docs sections can help you get started:

- Conceptual overview of [Federated Schemas](./federated-types/overview)
- [Guide on using Apollo GraphOS](./managed-federation) to automate and manage deployments of your federated schemas (this is also known as **Managed Federation**)
- Reference materials for:
  - [Performance considerations](./performance/caching)
  - [Debugging and metrics](./errors)
  - [Subgraph specifications](./building-supergraphs/router) for federation-compatibility

### Best practices

Whether your supergraph implementation is already underway or just starting, you can use the [Supergraph Architecture Framework](https://saf.apollographql.com/) (SAF) to learn about best practices. The SAF includes an assessment you can take to quantify your supergraph's current state and identify areas for improvement.

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Co-authored-by: Dylan Anthony <dylan@apollographql.com>

docs/source/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to Apollo Federation
subtitle: Learn how to combine your GraphQL APIs into a unified supergraph
description: Learn how Apollo Federation can help you declaratively combine your GraphQL APIs into a unified, federated supergraph using a microservices architecture
---

## What is Apollo Federation?

**Apollo Federation** lets you declaratively combine multiple GraphQL APIs into a unified graph. This enables clients to interact with multiple APIs through a single request.

A client makes a request to the single entry point of the federated graph called the **router**. The router intelligently orchestrates and distributes the request across your APIs and returns a combined response. For a client, the request and response cycle of querying the router looks the same as querying any GraphQL server.

```mermaid
graph LR;
  clients(Clients);
  router([Router]);
  serviceA[GraphQL API <br/>A];
  serviceB[GraphQL API <br/>B];
  serviceC[GraphQL API <br/>C];
  router --- serviceA & serviceB & serviceC;
  clients -.- router;
  class clients secondary;
```

## Benefits of federation

### Microservices architecture

Apollo Federation lets API teams operate in a [microservices architecture](https://www.atlassian.com/microservices/microservices-architecture/microservices-vs-monolith) while exposing a unified GraphQL API to clients. Understanding these concepts can help you get the most out of federation.

<Tip>

- Learn more about the [considerations and benefits of GraphQL](/intro/benefits/).
- Learn more about the [considerations and benefits of microservices architecture](https://aws.amazon.com/compare/the-difference-between-monolithic-and-microservices-architecture/).

</Tip>

### Preserve client simplicity and performance

A client may need to make multiple fetches when interacting with multiple non-federated GraphQL APIs. This can happen within an organization adopting GraphQL that has multiple teams developing independently. Each team sets up a GraphQL API that provides the data used by that team. For example, a travel app may have separate GraphQL APIs for users, flights, and hotels:

```mermaid
graph RL;
  subgraph " ";
    databaseA[(User<br/>data)];
    serviceA[Users API];
    databaseA --- serviceA;
  end;

  subgraph " ";
    databaseB[(Flight<br/>data)];
    serviceB[Flights API];
    databaseB --- serviceB;
  end;

  subgraph " ";
    databaseC[(Hotel<br/>data)];
    serviceC[Hotels API];
    databaseC --- serviceC;
  end;

  clients(Clients);
  serviceA & serviceB & serviceC -.- clients;
  class clients secondary;
```

With a single federated graph, you preserve a powerful advantage of GraphQL over traditional REST APIs: the ability to fetch all the data you need in a single request.

```mermaid
graph LR;
  clients(Clients);
  subgraph supergraph[" "];
  router([Router]);
  serviceA[Users API];
  serviceB[Flights API];
  serviceC[Hotels API];
  databaseA[(Users<br/>data)];
  databaseB[(Flights<br/>data)];
  databaseC[(Hotels<br/>data)];
  serviceA --- databaseA;
  serviceB --- databaseB;
  serviceC --- databaseC;
  router --- serviceA & serviceB & serviceC;
  end;
  clients -.- router;
  class clients secondary;
```

The router intelligently calls all the services it needs to complete a request, rather than simply forward them.
Clients should only query the router, and only the router should query the constituent APIs.
No client-side configuration is required.

### Design schemas at scale

Some alternative approaches to combining GraphQL APIs impose limits on your schema, like adding namespaces or representing relationships with IDs instead of types. With these approaches, your individual GraphQL API schemas may look unchanged—but the resulting federated schema that clients interact with is more complex. Subsequently, it requires you to make frontend as well as backend changes.

With Apollo Federation, clients can interact with the federated schema as if it were a monolith. Consumers of your API shouldn't know or care that it's implemented as microservices.

### Maintain a single API

With federation, every team contributes directly to the overall federated GraphQL schema. Each team can work independently without needing to maintain multiple API layers. This frees up your platform team to focus on the quality of your API, rather than keeping it up to date.


## Next steps

Before continuing, it's helpful to know some terminology:

- When combining multiple GraphQL APIs, the single, federated graph is called a **supergraph**.
- In a supergraph, the individual GraphQL APIs are called **subgraphs**.

```mermaid
graph LR;
  clients(Clients);
  router([Router]);
  subgraph "Supergraph"
  serviceA[Subgraph <br/>A];
  serviceB[Subgraph <br/>B];
  serviceC[Subgraph <br/>C];
  router --- serviceA & serviceB & serviceC;
  end
  clients -.- router;
  class clients secondary;
```

Different subgraphs in the same supergraph can use different server implementations and even different programming languages as long as they are [federation-compatible](./building-supergraphs/supported-subgraphs/).

<Tip>

- Learn more about [choosing subgraph libraries](./building-supergraphs/subgraphs-overview#choosing-a-subgraph-library).
- Learn more about [your router options](./building-supergraphs/router).

</Tip>

### Additional resources

Depending on your goals, you have several options for learning more about federation: 
- If you're new to federated architecture, this [overview article](https://graphql.com/learn/federated-architecture/) can familiarize the concepts.
- If you'd like to recap key concepts of Apollo Federation, the video below gives a great overview.

    <ExpansionPanel title="Watch the video overview">

    <YouTube youTubeId="wRExDdgs6JU" />

    </ExpansionPanel>

- If you learn best by doing, this [interactive course](https://www.apollographql.com/tutorials/voyage-part1) teaches you to build an example supergraph using Apollo Federation.

### Further documentation

Once you're ready to apply federation to your own APIs, these docs sections can help you get started:

- Conceptual overview of [Federated Schemas](./federated-types/overview)
- [Guide on using Apollo GraphOS](./managed-federation) to automate and manage deployments of your federated schemas (this is also known as **Managed Federation**)
- Reference materials for:
  - [Performance considerations](./performance/caching)
  - [Debugging and metrics](./errors)
  - [Subgraph specifications](./building-supergraphs/router) for federation-compatibility

### Best practices

Whether your supergraph implementation is already underway or just starting, you can use the [Supergraph Architecture Framework](https://saf.apollographql.com/) (SAF) to learn about best practices. The SAF includes an assessment you can take to quantify your supergraph's current state and identify areas for improvement.
