docs/source/subgraphs.mdx, before:

---
title: Implementing subgraphs
---

import FederationArchitecture from '../shared/diagrams/federation-architecture.mdx';

This article describes how to create a **subgraph** for a federated graph using Apollo Server.

## Defining a subgraph

> To be part of a supergraph, a subgraph must conform to the [Apollo Federation subgraph specification](./federation-spec/), which exposes the subgraph's capabilities to the gateway, as well as to tools like Apollo Studio.

Converting an existing monolithic graph into a single subgraph is a convenient first step in building a federated supergraph. To start, here's a *non-federated* Apollo Server setup:

```javascript title="index.js"
const { ApolloServer, gql } = require('apollo-server');

const typeDefs = gql`
  type Query {
    me: User
  }

  type User {
    id: ID!
    username: String
  }
`;

const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    me() {
      return { id: "1", username: "@ava" }
    }
  }
};

const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
});

server.listen(4001).then(({ url }) => {
    console.log(`🚀 Server ready at ${url}`);
});
```

This should look familiar if you've [set up Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/getting-started/) before. If it doesn't, we recommend you familiarize yourself with the basics before jumping into federation.

Now, let's convert this to a subgraph!

### 1. Install and import `@apollo/subgraph`

The first step is to install the `@apollo/subgraph` package in our project:

```shell
npm install @apollo/subgraph
```

We also need to require the `buildSubgraphSchema` function from this package in our `index.js` file (we'll use it later):

```js title="index.js"
const { buildSubgraphSchema } = require('@apollo/subgraph');
```

### 2. Opt in to Federation 2

For a subgraph to use [new features in Federation 2](./federation-2/new-in-federation-2/), its schema needs to include the following `extend schema` definition:

```js {2-4}
const typeDefs = gql`
extend schema
  @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
        import: ["@key", "@shareable"])

  type Query {
    me: User
  }

  type User {
    id: ID!
    username: String
  }
`;
```

This definition designates a schema as a "true" Federation 2 schema. Without it, Federation 2 composition assumes a subgraph is using Federation 1, and it sets certain defaults for backward compatibility.

> As you begin using more [federation-specific directives](./federated-types/federated-directives) beyond `@key` and `@shareable`, you'll need to add those directives to the `import` array shown above.

### 3. Define an entity

> Entities aren't _required_ in a subgraph, but they're a core building block of a federated graph, so it's good to get some practice defining them.

As part of our federated architecture, we want _other_ subgraphs to be able to contribute fields to the `User` type. To enable this, we add the `@key` directive to the `User` type's definition to designate it as an [entity](./entities/):

```js {10} title="index.js"
const typeDefs = gql`
  extend schema
    @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
          import: ["@key", "@shareable"])

  type Query {
    me: User
  }

  type User @key(fields: "id") {
    id: ID!
    username: String
  }
`;
```

The `@key` directive tells the gateway which field(s) of the `User` entity can uniquely identify a particular instance of it. In this case, the gateway can use the single field `id`.

Next, we add a **reference resolver** for the `User` entity. A reference resolver tells the gateway how to fetch an entity by its `@key` fields:

```js title="index.js"
const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    me() {
      return { id: "1", username: "@ava" }
    }
  },
  User: {
    __resolveReference(user, { fetchUserById }){
      return fetchUserById(user.id)
    }
  }
};
```

(This example requires defining the `fetchUserById` function to obtain the appropriate `User` from our backing data store.)

> [Learn more about entities.](./entities/)

### 4. Generate the subgraph schema

Finally, we use the `buildSubgraphSchema` function from the `@apollo/subgraph` package to augment our schema definition with federation support. We provide the result of this function to the `ApolloServer` constructor:

```js title="index.js"
const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema: buildSubgraphSchema({ typeDefs, resolvers })
});

server.listen(4001).then(({ url }) => {
    console.log(`🚀 Server ready at ${url}`);
});
```

The server is now ready to act as a subgraph in a federated graph!

### Combined example

Here are the snippets above combined (again, note that for this sample to be complete, you must define the `fetchUserById` function for your data source):

```js title="index.js"
const { ApolloServer, gql } = require('apollo-server');
const { buildSubgraphSchema } = require('@apollo/subgraph');

const typeDefs = gql`
  extend schema
    @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
          import: ["@key", "@shareable"])

  type Query {
    me: User
  }

  type User @key(fields: "id") {
    id: ID!
    username: String
  }
`;

const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    me() {
      return { id: "1", username: "@ava" }
    }
  },
  User: {
    __resolveReference(user, { fetchUserById }){
      return fetchUserById(user.id)
    }
  }
}

const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema: buildSubgraphSchema({ typeDefs, resolvers })
});

server.listen(4001).then(({ url }) => {
    console.log(`🚀 Server ready at ${url}`);
});
```

## Securing your subgraphs

Because of the power and flexibility of the [`Query._entities` and `Query._service` fields](#subgraph-specific-fields), your subgraphs should **not** be directly accessible by clients. Instead, only your [gateway](./gateway/) should have access to your subgraphs. Clients then communicate with the gateway:

<FederationArchitecture />

Make sure to implement any necessary firewall rules, access control
lists, or other measures to ensure that individual subgraphs can
be accessed _only_ via the gateway.

## Subgraph-specific fields

When you [generate your subgraph schema](#4-generate-the-subgraph-schema), some federation-specific definitions are automatically added to it. In addition to directive definitions like `@key`, the most useful of these definitions for debugging are two fields of the `Query` type: `_service` and `_entities`:

```graphql
type Query {
  # ...your field definitions...

  # Added automatically
  _service: _Service!
  _entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
}
```

### `Query._service`

This field returns a `_Service` object with one field of its own: `sdl`. You can query it like so:

```graphql
query GetSubgraphSchema {
  _service {
    sdl
  }
}
```

The `sdl` field returns your subgraph's schema as an SDL string. This field has a couple of important differences from a standard [introspection query](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) that a tool like Apollo Sandbox uses:

* Unlike introspection, the `sdl` field is _not_ disabled by default in production environments (this is safe if you properly [secure your subgraph](#securing-your-subgraphs)).
* Unlike introspection, the `sdl` field's returned string includes federation-specific directives like `@key`.

### `Query._entities`

> [Learn about entities](./entities/) if you haven't yet.

This field takes a list of **entity representations** and returns a list of corresponding entities.

> Whenever one subgraph references _another_ subgraph's entity, it uses an **entity representation** to do so. An entity representation is an object that includes _only_ the entity's `__typename` and the fields in the entity's `@key`.

```graphql
_entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
```

* The `_Any` type is a special scalar that enables you to provide entity representations of any valid shape.
* The `_Entity` type is a generated [union type](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/schema/unions-interfaces/#union-type) that includes every entity defined in your subgraph's schema.

You can query this field like so, providing a value for the `$representations` variable as shown:

```graphql title="Query"
query ($representations: [_Any!]!) {
  _entities(representations: $representations) {
    ... on User {
      id
      username
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Variable"
{
  "representations": [
    {
      "__typename": "User",
      "id": "5"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Using in tests and debugging

If you're writing integration tests for your subgraph, you can test the return value of the `_entities` field for various entity representations that your _other_ subgraphs use.

If you're developing your subgraph in your local environment, you can [mock the return value](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/testing/mocking/) of the `_entities` field for your _other_ subgraphs so you don't have to connect those subgraphs to their respective data stores.

## Custom directives in subgraphs

The method for defining custom directives differs slightly for a federated graph, and it also depends on the version of Apollo Server you're using.

> ⚠️ **Important considerations**
>
> Before you use directives in a federated graph, make sure to consider the following:
>
> * Custom directives are _not_ included in your graph's composed supergraph schema. The composition process strips all subgraph directives. Only a given subgraph is aware of its own directives.
> * Because directives are specific to individual subgraphs, it's valid for different subgraphs to define the _same_ directive with _different_ logic. Composition does not detect or warn about such inconsistencies.
> * If multiple subgraphs can resolve a particular field, each subgraph should almost always apply the exact same set of custom directives (with the exact same accompanying logic) to that field. Otherwise, the behavior of that field might vary depending on _which_ subgraph resolves it.

### Directives in Apollo Server 3.x

Apollo Server 3 does not provide _built-in_ support for custom directives, but you can install certain `@graphql-tools` libraries to enable support. To get started with these libraries in Apollo Server, first read [Creating schema directives](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/schema/creating-directives/).

As the linked article describes, in Apollo Server 3 you define a **transformer function** for each of your subgraph schema's custom directives.

To apply transformer functions to your executable subgraph schema, you first _generate_ the subgraph schema with `buildSubgraphSchema` as usual:

```js
let subgraphSchema = buildSubgraphSchema({typeDefs, resolvers});
```

But instead of passing the result directly to the `ApolloServer` constructor, you first apply all of your transformer functions to it:

```js
// Transformer function for an @upper directive
subgraphSchema = upperDirectiveTransformer(subgraphSchema, 'upper');
```

After applying all transformer functions, you provide your final subgraph schema to the `ApolloServer` constructor as usual:

```js
const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema: subgraphSchema
  // ...other options...
});
```

### Directives in Apollo Server 2.x

**Without Apollo Federation**, you provide your directive definitions to the constructor of `ApolloServer` in the `schemaDirectives` argument, like so:

<ExpansionPanel title="Expand example">

```js {15-17}
const { ApolloServer, gql, SchemaDirectiveVisitor } = require("apollo-server");

// typeDefs and resolvers defined here

class DeprecatedDirective extends SchemaDirectiveVisitor {
  public visitFieldDefinition(field: GraphQLField<any, any>) {
    field.isDeprecated = true;
    field.deprecationReason = this.args.reason;
  }
}

const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
  schemaDirectives: {
    deprecated: DeprecatedDirective
  }
});
```

</ExpansionPanel>

**With Apollo Federation**, you instead call `SchemaDirectiveVisitor.visitSchemaDirectives`, passing in your schema and your directives, _before_ you provide your schema to the constructor of `ApolloServer`:

```js
const { ApolloServer, gql, SchemaDirectiveVisitor } = require('apollo-server');
const { buildSubgraphSchema } = require ('@apollo/subgraph')

// typeDefs and resolvers defined here

class DeprecatedDirective extends SchemaDirectiveVisitor {
  public visitFieldDefinition(field: GraphQLField<any, any>) {
    field.isDeprecated = true;
    field.deprecationReason = this.args.reason;
  }
}

const directives = {
  deprecated: DeprecatedDirective
};
let schema = buildSubgraphSchema({ typeDefs, resolvers });

SchemaDirectiveVisitor.visitSchemaDirectives(schema, directives);

const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema: schema
});
```

Also make sure to read about the [gateway's support for custom directives](./gateway/#custom-directive-support).

Commit message:

Various tidying in the federation docset (#1758)
* Miscellaneous docs cleanup

* Some more cleanup and move to supergraph language

* Fix a link and a word

docs/source/subgraphs.mdx, after:

---
title: Implementing subgraphs
---

import FederationArchitecture from '../shared/diagrams/federation-architecture.mdx';

This article demonstrates how to create a **subgraph** for a federated supergraph using Node.js and Apollo Server.

> To create a subgraph using a different language and/or framework, see the list of [subgraph-compatible libraries](./other-servers/). Note that not all libraries provide full support for Federation features.

## Defining a subgraph

> To be part of a supergraph, a subgraph must conform to the [Apollo Federation subgraph specification](./federation-spec/), which exposes the subgraph's capabilities to the gateway, as well as to tools like Apollo Studio.

Converting an existing monolithic graph into a single subgraph is a convenient first step in building a federated supergraph. To start, here's a *non-federated* Apollo Server setup:

```javascript title="index.js"
const { ApolloServer, gql } = require('apollo-server');

const typeDefs = gql`
  type Query {
    me: User
  }

  type User {
    id: ID!
    username: String
  }
`;

const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    me() {
      return { id: "1", username: "@ava" }
    }
  }
};

const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
});

server.listen(4001).then(({ url }) => {
    console.log(`🚀 Server ready at ${url}`);
});
```

This should look familiar if you've [set up Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/getting-started/) before. If it doesn't, we recommend you familiarize yourself with the basics before jumping into federation.

Now, let's convert this to a subgraph!

### 1. Install and import `@apollo/subgraph`

The first step is to install the `@apollo/subgraph` package in our project:

```shell
npm install @apollo/subgraph
```

We also need to require the `buildSubgraphSchema` function from this package in our `index.js` file (we'll use it later):

```js title="index.js"
const { buildSubgraphSchema } = require('@apollo/subgraph');
```

### 2. Opt in to Federation 2

For a subgraph to use [new features in Federation 2](./federation-2/new-in-federation-2/), its schema needs to include the following `extend schema` definition:

```js {2-4}
const typeDefs = gql`
extend schema
  @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
        import: ["@key", "@shareable"])

  type Query {
    me: User
  }

  type User {
    id: ID!
    username: String
  }
`;
```

This definition enables the schema to use Federation 2 features. Without it, Federation 2 composition assumes a subgraph is using Federation 1, and it sets certain defaults for backward compatibility.

> As you begin using more [federation-specific directives](./federated-types/federated-directives) beyond `@key` and `@shareable`, you'll need to add those directives to the `import` array shown above.

### 3. Define an entity

> Entities aren't _required_ in a subgraph, but they're a core building block of a federated supergraph, so it's good to get some practice defining them.

As part of our federated architecture, we want _other_ subgraphs to be able to contribute fields to the `User` type. To enable this, we add the `@key` directive to the `User` type's definition to designate it as an [entity](./entities/):

```js {10} title="index.js"
const typeDefs = gql`
  extend schema
    @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
          import: ["@key", "@shareable"])

  type Query {
    me: User
  }

  type User @key(fields: "id") {
    id: ID!
    username: String
  }
`;
```

The `@key` directive tells the gateway which field(s) of the `User` entity can uniquely identify a particular instance of it. In this case, the gateway can use the single field `id`.

Next, we add a **reference resolver** for the `User` entity. A reference resolver tells the gateway how to fetch an entity by its `@key` fields:

```js title="index.js"
const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    me() {
      return { id: "1", username: "@ava" }
    }
  },
  User: {
    __resolveReference(user, { fetchUserById }){
      return fetchUserById(user.id)
    }
  }
};
```

(This example requires defining the `fetchUserById` function to obtain the appropriate `User` from our backing data store.)

> [Learn more about entities.](./entities/)

### 4. Generate the subgraph schema

Finally, we use the `buildSubgraphSchema` function from the `@apollo/subgraph` package to augment our schema definition with federation support. We provide the result of this function to the `ApolloServer` constructor:

```js title="index.js"
const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema: buildSubgraphSchema({ typeDefs, resolvers })
});

server.listen(4001).then(({ url }) => {
    console.log(`🚀 Server ready at ${url}`);
});
```

The server is now ready to act as a subgraph in a federated graph!

### Combined example

Here are the snippets above combined (again, note that for this sample to be complete, you must define the `fetchUserById` function for your data source):

```js title="index.js"
const { ApolloServer, gql } = require('apollo-server');
const { buildSubgraphSchema } = require('@apollo/subgraph');

const typeDefs = gql`
  extend schema
    @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
          import: ["@key", "@shareable"])

  type Query {
    me: User
  }

  type User @key(fields: "id") {
    id: ID!
    username: String
  }
`;

const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    me() {
      return { id: "1", username: "@ava" }
    }
  },
  User: {
    __resolveReference(user, { fetchUserById }){
      return fetchUserById(user.id)
    }
  }
}

const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema: buildSubgraphSchema({ typeDefs, resolvers })
});

server.listen(4001).then(({ url }) => {
    console.log(`🚀 Server ready at ${url}`);
});
```

## Securing your subgraphs

Because of the power and flexibility of the [`Query._entities` and `Query._service` fields](#subgraph-specific-fields), your subgraphs should **not** be directly accessible by clients. Instead, only your [gateway](./gateway/) should have access to your subgraphs. Clients then communicate with the gateway:

<FederationArchitecture />

Make sure to implement any necessary firewall rules, access control
lists, or other measures to ensure that individual subgraphs can
be accessed _only_ via the gateway.

## Subgraph-specific fields

When you [generate your subgraph schema](#4-generate-the-subgraph-schema), some federation-specific definitions are automatically added to it. In addition to directive definitions like `@key`, the most useful of these definitions for debugging are two fields of the `Query` type: `_service` and `_entities`:

```graphql
type Query {
  # ...your field definitions...

  # Added automatically
  _service: _Service!
  _entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
}
```

### `Query._service`

This field returns a `_Service` object with one field of its own: `sdl`. You can query it like so:

```graphql
query GetSubgraphSchema {
  _service {
    sdl
  }
}
```

The `sdl` field returns your subgraph's schema as an SDL string. This field has a couple of important differences from a standard [introspection query](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) that a tool like Apollo Sandbox uses:

* Unlike introspection, the `sdl` field is _not_ disabled by default in production environments (this is safe if you properly [secure your subgraph](#securing-your-subgraphs)).
* Unlike introspection, the `sdl` field's returned string includes federation-specific directives like `@key`.

### `Query._entities`

> [Learn about entities](./entities/) if you haven't yet.

This field takes a list of **entity representations** and returns a list of corresponding entities.

> Whenever one subgraph references _another_ subgraph's entity, it uses an **entity representation** to do so. An entity representation is an object that includes _only_ the entity's `__typename` and the fields in the entity's `@key`.

```graphql
_entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
```

* The `_Any` type is a special scalar that enables you to provide entity representations of any valid shape.
* The `_Entity` type is a generated [union type](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/schema/unions-interfaces/#union-type) that includes every entity defined in your subgraph's schema.

You can query this field like so, providing a value for the `$representations` variable as shown:

```graphql title="Query"
query ($representations: [_Any!]!) {
  _entities(representations: $representations) {
    ... on User {
      id
      username
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Variable"
{
  "representations": [
    {
      "__typename": "User",
      "id": "5"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Using in tests and debugging

If you're writing integration tests for your subgraph, you can test the return value of the `_entities` field for various entity representations that your _other_ subgraphs use.

If you're developing your subgraph in your local environment, you can [mock the return value](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/testing/mocking/) of the `_entities` field for your _other_ subgraphs so you don't have to connect those subgraphs to their respective data stores.

## Custom directives in subgraphs

The method for defining custom directives differs slightly for a federated graph, and it also depends on the version of Apollo Server you're using.

> ⚠️ **Important considerations**
>
> Before you use directives in a federated graph, make sure to consider the following:
>
> * Custom directives are _not_ included in your graph's composed supergraph schema. The composition process strips all subgraph directives. Only a given subgraph is aware of its own directives.
> * Because directives are specific to individual subgraphs, it's valid for different subgraphs to define the _same_ directive with _different_ logic. Composition does not detect or warn about such inconsistencies.
> * If multiple subgraphs can resolve a particular field, each subgraph should almost always apply the exact same set of custom directives (with the exact same accompanying logic) to that field. Otherwise, the behavior of that field might vary depending on _which_ subgraph resolves it.

### Directives in Apollo Server 3.x

Apollo Server 3 does not provide _built-in_ support for custom directives, but you can install certain `@graphql-tools` libraries to enable support. To get started with these libraries in Apollo Server, first read [Creating schema directives](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/schema/creating-directives/).

As the linked article describes, in Apollo Server 3 you define a **transformer function** for each of your subgraph schema's custom directives.

To apply transformer functions to your executable subgraph schema, you first _generate_ the subgraph schema with `buildSubgraphSchema` as usual:

```js
let subgraphSchema = buildSubgraphSchema({typeDefs, resolvers});
```

But instead of passing the result directly to the `ApolloServer` constructor, you first apply all of your transformer functions to it:

```js
// Transformer function for an @upper directive
subgraphSchema = upperDirectiveTransformer(subgraphSchema, 'upper');
```

After applying all transformer functions, you provide your final subgraph schema to the `ApolloServer` constructor as usual:

```js
const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema: subgraphSchema
  // ...other options...
});
```

### Directives in Apollo Server 2.x

**Without Apollo Federation**, you provide your directive definitions to the constructor of `ApolloServer` in the `schemaDirectives` argument, like so:

<ExpansionPanel title="Expand example">

```js {15-17}
const { ApolloServer, gql, SchemaDirectiveVisitor } = require("apollo-server");

// typeDefs and resolvers defined here

class DeprecatedDirective extends SchemaDirectiveVisitor {
  public visitFieldDefinition(field: GraphQLField<any, any>) {
    field.isDeprecated = true;
    field.deprecationReason = this.args.reason;
  }
}

const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
  schemaDirectives: {
    deprecated: DeprecatedDirective
  }
});
```

</ExpansionPanel>

**With Apollo Federation**, you instead call `SchemaDirectiveVisitor.visitSchemaDirectives`, passing in your schema and your directives, _before_ you provide your schema to the constructor of `ApolloServer`:

```js
const { ApolloServer, gql, SchemaDirectiveVisitor } = require('apollo-server');
const { buildSubgraphSchema } = require ('@apollo/subgraph')

// typeDefs and resolvers defined here

class DeprecatedDirective extends SchemaDirectiveVisitor {
  public visitFieldDefinition(field: GraphQLField<any, any>) {
    field.isDeprecated = true;
    field.deprecationReason = this.args.reason;
  }
}

const directives = {
  deprecated: DeprecatedDirective
};
let schema = buildSubgraphSchema({ typeDefs, resolvers });

SchemaDirectiveVisitor.visitSchemaDirectives(schema, directives);

const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema: schema
});
```

Also make sure to read about the [gateway's support for custom directives](./gateway/#custom-directive-support).
