docs/source/federated-types/sharing-types.mdx, before:

---
title: Value types in Apollo Federation
description: Share types and fields across multiple subgraphs
---

> ⚠️ The field sharing model has changed significantly in Federation 2. For a summary of these changes, [see what's new](../federation-2/new-in-federation-2/#value-types).
>
>For more information about using value types in Federation 1, you can view the [previous version of this article](/federation/v1/value-types/).

In a federated graph, it's common to want to reuse a GraphQL type in multiple [subgraphs](../subgraphs/).

For example, suppose you want to define and reuse a generic `Position` type in different subgraphs:

```graphql
type Position {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

Types like this are called **value types**. This article describes how to share value types and their fields in federated graph, enabling multiple subgraphs to define and resolve them.

## Sharing object types

By default in [Federation 2 subgraphs](../federation-2/moving-to-federation-2/#phase-2-modify-subgraph-schemas), a single object field _can't_ be defined or resolved by more than one subgraph schema.

Consider the following `Position` example:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">❌</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph A"
type Position {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph B"
type Position {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```
<></>

</CodeColumns>

Attempting to compose these two subgraph schemas together will [break composition](./composition/#breaking-composition). The gateway doesn't know _which subgraph_ is responsible for resolving `Position.x` and `Position.y`. To enable multiple subgraphs to resolve these fields, you must first mark that field as [`@shareable`](#using-shareable).

> As an alternative, if you want Subgraphs A and B to resolve _different_ fields of `Position`, you can designate the `Position` type as an [entity](../entities).

### Using `@shareable`

The `@shareable` directive enables multiple subgraphs to resolve a particular object field (or set of object fields).

To use `@shareable` in a subgraph schema, you first need to add the following snippet to that schema to [opt in to Federation 2](../federation-2/moving-to-federation-2/#opt-in-to-federation-2):

```graphql
extend schema
  @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
        import: ["@key", "@shareable"])
```

Then you can apply the `@shareable` directive to an object type, or to _individual fields_ of that type:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">✅</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {1} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph B"
type Position {
  x: Int! @shareable
  y: Int! @shareable
}
```
<></>

</CodeColumns>

> Marking a type as `@shareable` is equivalent to marking _all_ of its fields as `@shareable`, so the two subgraph definitions above are equivalent.

Both subgraphs A _and_ B can now resolve the `x` and `y` fields for the `Position` type, and our subgraph schemas will successfully compose into a supergraph schema.

#### ⚠️ Important considerations for `@shareable`

* If a type or field is marked `@shareable` in _any_ subgraph, it must be marked `@shareable` or [`@external`](../federation-spec/#external) in _every_ subgraph that defines it. Otherwise, composition fails.
* If multiple subgraphs can resolve a field, **make sure each subgraph's resolver for that field behaves identically.** Otherwise, queries might return inconsistent results depending on which subgraph resolves the field.

## Differing shared fields

Shared fields can differ between subgraphs in specific ways:
* The return type of a shared field can vary in nullability (`String` / `String!`).
  * A shared field's return type _can't_ vary in its core type (`Int` vs. `String`) or in whether it returns a list (`Int` vs. `[Int]`).
* A shared field can be omitted from a subgraph entirely, _if_ that field is always [resolvable](../federated-types/composition/#rules-of-composition).

For example, take a look at the shared `Food` type below:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
type Food @shareable {
  name: String!
  cost: Int!
}
```

```graphql {3-4} title="Subgraph B"
type Food @shareable {
  name: String!
  cost: Int # Nullable
  inStock: Boolean! # Not in A
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

The above `Food` types differ in the nullability of their fields _and_ the fields included in each type.

### Return types

Let's say two subgraphs both define an `Event` object type with a `timestamp` field:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">❌</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {2} title="Subgraph A"
type Event @shareable {
  timestamp: Int!
}
```

```graphql {2} title="Subgraph B"
type Event @shareable {
  timestamp: String!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

Subgraph A's `timestamp` returns an `Int`, and Subgraph B's returns a `String`. **This is invalid.** When composition attempts to generate an `Event` type for the supergraph schema, it fails due to an unresolvable conflict between the two `timestamp` field definitions.

Next, look at these varying definitions for the `Position` object type:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">✅</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int
  y: Int
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

The `x` and `y` fields are _non-nullable_ in Subgraph A, but they're _nullable_ in Subgraph B. **This is valid!** Composition recognizes that it can use the following definition for `Position` in the supergraph schema:


```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
type Position {
  x: Int
  y: Int
}
```

This definition works for querying Subgraph A, because Subgraph A's definition is _more restrictive_ than this (a non-nullable value is always valid for a nullable field). In this case, composition **coerces** Subgraph A's `Position` fields to satisfy the reduced restrictiveness of Subgraph B.

> Note that Subgraph A's actual subgraph schema is _not_ modified. Within Subgraph A, `x` and `y` remain non-nullable.

### Arguments

Arguments for a shared field can differ between subgraphs in certain ways:

* If an argument is _required_ in at least one subgraph, it can be _optional_ in other subgraphs. **It cannot be omitted.**
* If an argument is _optional in every subgraph where it's defined_, it _can_ be omitted in other subgraphs. _However:_
    * ⚠️ **If a field argument is omitted from any subgraph, that argument is omitted from the supergraph schema entirely!** This means that clients _can't_ provide the argument for that field.

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">✅</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument is required
  height(units: String!): Int!
}
```

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph B"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument can be optional
  height(units: String): Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">❌</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument is required
  height(units: String!): Int!
}
```

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph B"
type Building @shareable {
  # ⚠️ Argument can't be omitted! ⚠️
  height: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">⚠️</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument is optional
  height(units: String): Int!
}
```

```graphql {5} title="Subgraph B"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument can be omitted, BUT
  # it doesn't appear in the
  # supergraph schema!
  height: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

### Omitting fields

Look at these two definitions of a `Position` object type:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">⚠️</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

Subgraph B defines a `z` field, but Subgraph A doesn't. In this case, when composition generates the `Position` type for the supergraph schema, it includes all three fields:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
type Position {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

**This definition works for Subgraph B, but it presents a problem for Subgraph A.** Let's say Subgraph A defines the following `Query` type:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
type Query {
  currentPosition: Position!
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

According to the hypothetical supergraph schema, the following query is valid against the supergraph:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">❌</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql
query GetCurrentPosition {
  currentPosition {
    x
    y
    z # ⚠️ Unresolvable! ⚠️
  }
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

And here's the problem: if Subgraph B _doesn't_ define `Query.currentPosition`, this query _must_ be executed on Subgraph A. But Subgraph A is missing the `Position.z` field, so that field is **unresolvable**!

**Composition recognizes this potential problem, and it fails with an error.** So how do we fix it? Check out [Solutions for unresolvable fields](./composition/#solutions-for-unresolvable-fields).

## Adding new shared fields

Adding a new field to a value type can cause composition issues, because it's challenging to add the field to _all_ defining subgraphs at the same time.

Let's say we're adding a `z` field to our `Position` value type, and we start with Subgraph A:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">⚠️</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {4} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

It's likely that when we attempt to compose these two schemas, composition will _fail_, because Subgraph B can't resolve `Position.z`.

To incrementally add the field to _all_ of our subgraphs _without_ breaking composition, we can use the [`@inaccessible` directive](#using-inaccessible).


### Using `@inaccessible`

If you apply the `@inaccessible` directive to a field, composition _omits_ that field from your gateway's API schema. This helps you incrementally add a field to _multiple_ subgraphs without breaking composition.

To use `@inaccessible` in a subgraph, first make sure you include it in the `import` array of your Federation 2 opt-in declaration:

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
extend schema
  @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
        import: ["@key", "@shareable", "@inaccessible"])
```

Then, whenever you add a new field to a value type, apply `@inaccessible` to that field if it isn't yet present in _every_ subgraph that defines the value type:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {4} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int! @inaccessible
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

> Even if `Position.z` is defined in _multiple_ subgraphs, you only need to apply `@inaccessible` in _one_ subgraph to omit it. In fact, you might _want_ to apply it in only one subgraph to simplify removing it later.

With the syntax above, composition omits `Position.z` from the generated API schema, and the resulting `Position` type includes only `x` and `y` fields.

> Note that `Position.z` _does_ appear in the _supergraph_ schema, but the _API_ schema enforces which fields clients can include in operations. [Learn more about federated schemas.](./overview/)

Whenever you're ready, you can now add `Position.z` to Subgraph B:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int! @inaccessible
}
```

```graphql {4} title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

At this point, `Position.z` is _still_ `@inaccessible`, so composition continues to ignore it.

Finally, when you've added `Position.z` to every subgraph that defines `Position`, you can remove `@inaccessible` from Subgraph A:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {4} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

Composition now successfully includes `Position.z` in the supergraph schema!

## Enums, unions, and interfaces

In Federation 2, `enum`, `interface`, and `union` type definitions can be shared between subgraphs by default, _and_ those definitions can differ:
<CodeColumns>

```graphql {1, 3, 9} title="Subgraph A"
union Media = Book | Movie

enum Color {
  RED
  GREEN
  BLUE
}

interface User {
  name: String!
}
```

```graphql {1, 3, 9} title="Subgraph B"
union Media = Book | Podcast

enum Color {
  CYAN
  MAGENTA
  YELLOW
}

interface User {
  name: String!
  age: Int!
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

Compositional logic merges these definitions in your supergraph schema:

```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
union Media = Book | Movie | Podcast

enum Color {
  RED
  GREEN
  BLUE
  CYAN
  MAGENTA
  YELLOW
}

# The object types that implement this interface are
# responsible for resolving these fields.
interface User {
  name: String!
  age: Int!
}
```

This can be useful when different subgraphs are responsible for different subsets of a particular set of related types or values.

Commit message:

Update documentation for merging of input/output types

docs/source/federated-types/sharing-types.mdx, after:

---
title: Value types in Apollo Federation
description: Share types and fields across multiple subgraphs
---

> ⚠️ The field sharing model has changed significantly in Federation 2. For a summary of these changes, [see what's new](../federation-2/new-in-federation-2/#value-types).
>
>For more information about using value types in Federation 1, you can view the [previous version of this article](/federation/v1/value-types/).

In a federated graph, it's common to want to reuse a GraphQL type in multiple [subgraphs](../subgraphs/).

For example, suppose you want to define and reuse a generic `Position` type in different subgraphs:

```graphql
type Position {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

Types like this are called **value types**. This article describes how to share value types and their fields in federated graph, enabling multiple subgraphs to define and resolve them.

## Sharing object types

By default in [Federation 2 subgraphs](../federation-2/moving-to-federation-2/#phase-2-modify-subgraph-schemas), a single object field _can't_ be defined or resolved by more than one subgraph schema.

Consider the following `Position` example:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">❌</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph A"
type Position {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph B"
type Position {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```
<></>

</CodeColumns>

Attempting to compose these two subgraph schemas together will [break composition](./composition/#breaking-composition). The gateway doesn't know _which subgraph_ is responsible for resolving `Position.x` and `Position.y`. To enable multiple subgraphs to resolve these fields, you must first mark that field as [`@shareable`](#using-shareable).

> As an alternative, if you want Subgraphs A and B to resolve _different_ fields of `Position`, you can designate the `Position` type as an [entity](../entities).

### Using `@shareable`

The `@shareable` directive enables multiple subgraphs to resolve a particular object field (or set of object fields).

To use `@shareable` in a subgraph schema, you first need to add the following snippet to that schema to [opt in to Federation 2](../federation-2/moving-to-federation-2/#opt-in-to-federation-2):

```graphql
extend schema
  @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
        import: ["@key", "@shareable"])
```

Then you can apply the `@shareable` directive to an object type, or to _individual fields_ of that type:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">✅</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {1} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph B"
type Position {
  x: Int! @shareable
  y: Int! @shareable
}
```
<></>

</CodeColumns>

> Marking a type as `@shareable` is equivalent to marking _all_ of its fields as `@shareable`, so the two subgraph definitions above are equivalent.

Both subgraphs A _and_ B can now resolve the `x` and `y` fields for the `Position` type, and our subgraph schemas will successfully compose into a supergraph schema.

#### ⚠️ Important considerations for `@shareable`

* If a type or field is marked `@shareable` in _any_ subgraph, it must be marked `@shareable` or [`@external`](../federation-spec/#external) in _every_ subgraph that defines it. Otherwise, composition fails.
* If multiple subgraphs can resolve a field, **make sure each subgraph's resolver for that field behaves identically.** Otherwise, queries might return inconsistent results depending on which subgraph resolves the field.

## Differing shared fields

Shared fields can differ between subgraphs in specific ways:
* The return type of a shared field can vary in nullability (`String` / `String!`).
  * A shared field's return type _can't_ vary in its core type (`Int` vs. `String`) or in whether it returns a list (`Int` vs. `[Int]`).
* A shared field can be omitted from a subgraph entirely, _if_ that field is always [resolvable](../federated-types/composition/#rules-of-composition).

For example, take a look at the shared `Food` type below:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
type Food @shareable {
  name: String!
  cost: Int!
}
```

```graphql {3-4} title="Subgraph B"
type Food @shareable {
  name: String!
  cost: Int # Nullable
  inStock: Boolean! # Not in A
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

The above `Food` types differ in the nullability of their fields _and_ the fields included in each type.

### Return types

Let's say two subgraphs both define an `Event` object type with a `timestamp` field:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">❌</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {2} title="Subgraph A"
type Event @shareable {
  timestamp: Int!
}
```

```graphql {2} title="Subgraph B"
type Event @shareable {
  timestamp: String!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

Subgraph A's `timestamp` returns an `Int`, and Subgraph B's returns a `String`. **This is invalid.** When composition attempts to generate an `Event` type for the supergraph schema, it fails due to an unresolvable conflict between the two `timestamp` field definitions.

Next, look at these varying definitions for the `Position` object type:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">✅</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

```graphql {2-3} title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int
  y: Int
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

The `x` and `y` fields are _non-nullable_ in Subgraph A, but they're _nullable_ in Subgraph B. **This is valid!** Composition recognizes that it can use the following definition for `Position` in the supergraph schema:


```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
type Position {
  x: Int
  y: Int
}
```

This definition works for querying Subgraph A, because Subgraph A's definition is _more restrictive_ than this (a non-nullable value is always valid for a nullable field). In this case, composition **coerces** Subgraph A's `Position` fields to satisfy the reduced restrictiveness of Subgraph B.

> Note that Subgraph A's actual subgraph schema is _not_ modified. Within Subgraph A, `x` and `y` remain non-nullable.

### Arguments

Arguments for a shared field can differ between subgraphs in certain ways:

* If an argument is _required_ in at least one subgraph, it can be _optional_ in other subgraphs. **It cannot be omitted.**
* If an argument is _optional in every subgraph where it's defined_, it _can_ be omitted in other subgraphs. _However:_
    * ⚠️ **If a field argument is omitted from any subgraph, that argument is omitted from the supergraph schema entirely!** This means that clients _can't_ provide the argument for that field.

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">✅</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument is required
  height(units: String!): Int!
}
```

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph B"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument can be optional
  height(units: String): Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">❌</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument is required
  height(units: String!): Int!
}
```

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph B"
type Building @shareable {
  # ⚠️ Argument can't be omitted! ⚠️
  height: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">⚠️</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument is optional
  height(units: String): Int!
}
```

```graphql {5} title="Subgraph B"
type Building @shareable {
  # Argument can be omitted, BUT
  # it doesn't appear in the
  # supergraph schema!
  height: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

### Omitting fields

Look at these two definitions of a `Position` object type:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">⚠️</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

Subgraph B defines a `z` field, but Subgraph A doesn't. In this case, when composition generates the `Position` type for the supergraph schema, it includes all three fields:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
type Position {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

**This definition works for Subgraph B, but it presents a problem for Subgraph A.** Let's say Subgraph A defines the following `Query` type:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
type Query {
  currentPosition: Position!
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

According to the hypothetical supergraph schema, the following query is valid against the supergraph:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">❌</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql
query GetCurrentPosition {
  currentPosition {
    x
    y
    z # ⚠️ Unresolvable! ⚠️
  }
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

And here's the problem: if Subgraph B _doesn't_ define `Query.currentPosition`, this query _must_ be executed on Subgraph A. But Subgraph A is missing the `Position.z` field, so that field is **unresolvable**!

**Composition recognizes this potential problem, and it fails with an error.** So how do we fix it? Check out [Solutions for unresolvable fields](./composition/#solutions-for-unresolvable-fields).

## Adding new shared fields

Adding a new field to a value type can cause composition issues, because it's challenging to add the field to _all_ defining subgraphs at the same time.

Let's say we're adding a `z` field to our `Position` value type, and we start with Subgraph A:

<p style="margin-bottom: 0">⚠️</p>

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {4} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

It's likely that when we attempt to compose these two schemas, composition will _fail_, because Subgraph B can't resolve `Position.z`.

To incrementally add the field to _all_ of our subgraphs _without_ breaking composition, we can use the [`@inaccessible` directive](#using-inaccessible).


### Using `@inaccessible`

If you apply the `@inaccessible` directive to a field, composition _omits_ that field from your gateway's API schema. This helps you incrementally add a field to _multiple_ subgraphs without breaking composition.

To use `@inaccessible` in a subgraph, first make sure you include it in the `import` array of your Federation 2 opt-in declaration:

```graphql {3} title="Subgraph A"
extend schema
  @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.0",
        import: ["@key", "@shareable", "@inaccessible"])
```

Then, whenever you add a new field to a value type, apply `@inaccessible` to that field if it isn't yet present in _every_ subgraph that defines the value type:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {4} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int! @inaccessible
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

> Even if `Position.z` is defined in _multiple_ subgraphs, you only need to apply `@inaccessible` in _one_ subgraph to omit it. In fact, you might _want_ to apply it in only one subgraph to simplify removing it later.

With the syntax above, composition omits `Position.z` from the generated API schema, and the resulting `Position` type includes only `x` and `y` fields.

> Note that `Position.z` _does_ appear in the _supergraph_ schema, but the _API_ schema enforces which fields clients can include in operations. [Learn more about federated schemas.](./overview/)

Whenever you're ready, you can now add `Position.z` to Subgraph B:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int! @inaccessible
}
```

```graphql {4} title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

At this point, `Position.z` is _still_ `@inaccessible`, so composition continues to ignore it.

Finally, when you've added `Position.z` to every subgraph that defines `Position`, you can remove `@inaccessible` from Subgraph A:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql {4} title="Subgraph A"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type Position @shareable {
  x: Int!
  y: Int!
  z: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

Composition now successfully includes `Position.z` in the supergraph schema!

## Enums, unions, and interfaces

In Federation 2, `enum`, `interface`, and `union` type definitions can be shared between subgraphs by default, _and_ those definitions can differ:
<CodeColumns>

```graphql {1, 3, 9} title="Subgraph A"
union Media = Book | Movie

enum Color {
  RED
  GREEN
  BLUE
}

interface User {
  name: String!
}
```

```graphql {1, 3, 9} title="Subgraph B"
union Media = Book | Podcast

enum Color {
  RED
  CYAN
  MAGENTA
  YELLOW
}

interface User {
  name: String!
  age: Int!
}
```

<></>

</CodeColumns>

Compositional logic merges these definitions differently in your supergraph schema depending on whether they are used as an input or output type. Output types are merged by "union", and input types are merged by "intersection". If the above are output types, the composed schema looks like this:

```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
union Media = Book | Movie | Podcast

enum Color {
  RED
  GREEN
  BLUE
  CYAN
  MAGENTA
  YELLOW
}

# The object types that implement this interface are
# responsible for resolving these fields.
interface User {
  name: String!
  age: Int!
}
```

Whereas if they are input types, this would be the result:

```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
union Media = Book

enum Color {
  RED
}

# The object types that implement this interface are
# responsible for resolving these fields.
interface User {
  name: String!
}
```

For output types, the supergraph schema lists all values that may be returned, but for input types we restrict values that are allowed in the shared type so that we can ensure all subgraphs can process the value provided.

This can be useful when different subgraphs are responsible for different subsets of a particular set of related types or values.
