docs/source/reference/federation/subgraph-spec.mdx, before:

---
title: Apollo Federation Subgraph Specification
subtitle: Subgraph specification reference for server library developers
description: Learn about Apollo Federation 2 subgraph specifications, enhanced introspection, and entity field resolution for GraphQL server libraries.
---

This content is provided for developers adding federated subgraph support to a GraphQL server library, and for anyone curious about the inner workings of federation. You do not need to read this if you're building a supergraph with existing [subgraph-compatible libraries](/graphos/reference/federation/compatible-subgraphs), such as Apollo Server.

Servers that are partially or fully compatible with this specification are tracked in Apollo's [subgraph compatibility repository](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-federation-subgraph-compatibility).

For a GraphQL service to operate as an Apollo Federation 2 subgraph, it must do all of the following:

- Automatically extend its schema with all definitions listed in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions)
- Correctly resolve the `Query._service` [enhanced introspection field](#fetch-service-capabilities)
- Provide a mechanism for subgraph developers to resolve entity fields via the [`Query._entities` field](#resolving-entity-fields-with-query_entities)

Each of these requirements is described in the sections below.

## Subgraph schema additions

A subgraph must automatically add all of the following definitions to its GraphQL schema. The purpose of each definition is described in [Glossary of schema additions](#glossary-of-schema-additions).

<Note>

If your GraphQL server library is code-first instead of schema-first (i.e., it adds schema definitions programmatically instead of via static SDL), use whatever API is appropriate for your library to generate these definitions on startup.

</Note>

```graphql {1-4}
# ⚠️ This definition must be created dynamically. The union
#   must include every object type in the schema that uses
#   the @key directive (i.e., all federated entities).
union _Entity

scalar _Any
scalar FieldSet
scalar link__Import
scalar federation__ContextFieldValue
scalar federation__Scope
scalar federation__Policy

enum link__Purpose {
  """
  `SECURITY` features provide metadata necessary to securely resolve fields.
  """
  SECURITY

  """
  `EXECUTION` features provide metadata necessary for operation execution.
  """
  EXECUTION
}

type _Service {
  sdl: String!
}

extend type Query {
  _entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
  _service: _Service!
}

directive @external on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT
directive @requires(fields: FieldSet!) on FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @provides(fields: FieldSet!) on FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @key(fields: FieldSet!, resolvable: Boolean = true) repeatable on OBJECT | INTERFACE
directive @link(url: String!, as: String, for: link__Purpose, import: [link__Import]) repeatable on SCHEMA
directive @shareable repeatable on OBJECT | FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @inaccessible on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT | INTERFACE | UNION | ARGUMENT_DEFINITION | SCALAR | ENUM | ENUM_VALUE | INPUT_OBJECT | INPUT_FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @tag(name: String!) repeatable on FIELD_DEFINITION | INTERFACE | OBJECT | UNION | ARGUMENT_DEFINITION | SCALAR | ENUM | ENUM_VALUE | INPUT_OBJECT | INPUT_FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @override(from: String!) on FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @composeDirective(name: String!) repeatable on SCHEMA
directive @interfaceObject on OBJECT
directive @authenticated on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT | INTERFACE | SCALAR | ENUM
directive @requiresScopes(scopes: [[federation__Scope!]!]!) on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT | INTERFACE | SCALAR | ENUM
directive @policy(policies: [[federation__Policy!]!]!) on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT | INTERFACE | SCALAR | ENUM
directive @context(name: String!) repeatable on INTERFACE | OBJECT | UNION
directive @fromContext(field: ContextFieldValue) on ARGUMENT_DEFINITION

# This definition is required only for libraries that don't support
# GraphQL's built-in `extend` keyword
directive @extends on OBJECT | INTERFACE
```

## Enhanced introspection with `Query._service`

Some federated graph routers can compose their supergraph schema dynamically at runtime. To do so, a graph router first executes the following enhanced introspection query on each of its subgraphs to obtain all subgraph schemas:

```graphql
query {
  _service {
    sdl
  }
}
```

<Caution>

Apollo strongly recommends against dynamic composition in the graph router. Dynamic composition can cause unexpected downtime if composition fails on router startup. Nevertheless, supporting this use case is still a requirement for subgraph libraries.

</Caution>

### Differences from built-in introspection

The "enhanced" introspection query above differs from [the GraphQL spec's built-in introspection query](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Schema-Introspection) in the following ways:

- The returned schema representation is a string instead of a `__Schema` object.
- The returned schema string includes all uses of [federation-specific directives](/graphos/reference/federation/directives/), such as `@key`.
    - The built-in introspection query's response does not include the uses of any directives.
    - The graph router requires these federation-specific directives to perform composition successfully.
-  If a subgraph server "disables introspection", the enhanced introspection query is still available.

<Note>

The `_service` field is not included in the composed supergraph schema. For security reasons, it's intended solely for use by the graph router.

</Note>

### Required resolvers for introspection

To support the enhanced introspection query, a subgraph service must define resolvers for the following fields:

```graphql {2,6}
extend type Query {
  _service: _Service!
}

type _Service {
  sdl: String!
}
```

`Query._service` returns a `_Service` object, which in turn has a single field, `sdl` (short for schema definition language). The `sdl` field returns a string representation of the subgraph's schema.

The returned `sdl` string has the following requirements:

- It must include all uses of all federation-specific directives, such as `@key`.
    - All of these directives are shown in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions).
- If supporting Federation 1, `sdl` must omit all automatically added definitions from [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions), such as `Query._service` and `_Service.sdl`!
    - If your library is only supporting Federation 2, `sdl` can include these defintions.

For example, consider this Federation 2 subgraph schema:

```graphql title="schema.graphql"
extend schema
  @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.3",
        import: ["@key"])

type Query {
  me: User
}

type User @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
}
```

The value returned for the `sdl` field should include all of this information, including directives (excess whitespace can be removed).

## Resolving entity fields with `Query._entities`

In a federated supergraph, an _entity_ is an object type that can define different fields across multiple subgraphs. You can identify an entity in a schema by its use of the `@key` directive.

In the following example, the `Product` entity defines its fields across the Products and Reviews subgraphs:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  name: String!
}
```


```graphql title="Reviews subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  avgRating: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

If a subgraph contributes any fields to an entity, it must also provide the graph router direct access to the values of those fields. To support this, a subgraph library must do the following:

- Define the `_Entity` union type, which must include every entity type that the subgraph contributes fields to
- Provide a mechanism that enables a subgraph developer to identify and return a unique entity instance based on its `@key` fields
- Define the `Query._entities` field and resolve it using the mechanism provided to the subgraph developer

These requirements are described further in the sections below.

### Defining the `_Entity` union

The `_Entity` union type is the only schema definition in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions) that a subgraph must generate dynamically based on the schema it's provided. All other definitions are static and can be added exactly as shown.

The `_Entity` union must include all entity types that are defined in the subgraph schema, except entities with a `@key` that sets `resolvable: false`.

<Note>

If a subgraph defines zero applicable entity types, then it should not define the `_Entity` union.

</Note>

#### Example

Consider this subgraph schema:

```graphql title="Reviews subgraph"
type Review @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  body: String
  author: User
  product: Product
}

type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  reviews: [Review!]!
}

type User @key(fields: "email", resolvable: false) {
  email: String!
}
```

All three of the types in this subgraph schema are entities (note their `@key` directives). However, the `User` entity's `@key` sets `resolvable: false`. Therefore, the subgraph library should add the following `_Entity` union definition to the schema:

```graphql
# Omits `User` because its @key sets resolvable: false
union _Entity = Review | Product
```

The `_Entity` union is used by the `Query._entities` field, which is covered next.

### Understanding `Query._entities`

If a subgraph contributes fields to at least one entity, it must automatically define and correctly resolve the `Query._entities` field:

```graphql {2}
type Query {
  _entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
}
```

<Note>

If a subgraph doesn't define any entity types, then it should not define the `Query._entities` field.

</Note>

The graph router uses this entry point to directly fetch fields of entity objects. It combines those fields with other fields of the same entity that are returned by other subgraphs.

The `Query._entities` field takes a required `representations` argument, which is a list of entity representations. A representation is an object that contains all fields from one of an entity's `@key`s, plus that entity's `__typename` field. These are the fields that a subgraph requires to uniquely identify a particular instance of an entity.

Each item in the `representations` list is an `_Any` scalar. This is a federation-specific scalar defined in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions). This scalar is serialized as a generic JSON object, which enables the graph router to include representations of different entities in the same query, all of which can have a different shape.

Here's an example `_Any` representation for a `Product` entity:

```json
{
  "__typename": "Product",
  "upc": "abc123"
}
```

The `Query._entities` field must return a list of entity objects that correspond to the provided representations, in the exact same order. Entries in the list can be null if no entity exists for a provided representation.

#### Example

Let's say a supergraph includes two subgraphs with the following schemas:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products"
type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  name: String!
}

type Query {
  topProducts: [Product!]!
}
```


```graphql title="Reviews"
type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  reviews: [Review!]!
}

type Review {
  score: Int!
  description: String!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

With these subgraph schemas, a client can execute the following query against the graph router:

```graphql
query GetTopProductReviews {
  topProducts {
    reviews {
      description
    }
  }
}
```

To resolve this query, the graph router starts by sending the following query to the Products subgraph, because that's where the top-level `Query.topProducts` field is defined:

```graphql
query {
  topProducts {
    __typename
    upc
  }
}
```

Notice that this query includes `Product.__typename` and `Product.upc`, even though those fields aren't included in the original client query. The graph router knows that these two fields are used in a `Product` type's representation, which it will use to fetch the remaining fields from the Reviews subgraph.

After getting this result from the Products subgraph, the router can send this followup query to the Reviews subgraph:

```graphql
query ($_representations: [_Any!]!) {
  _entities(representations: $_representations) {
    ... on Product {
      reviews {
        description
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Notice that this query uses inline fragment matching (`... on Product`), because the return type of `Query._entities` is the `_Entity` union type.

Each entry that the router includes in the `$_representations` list variable has the following shape:

```json
{
  "__typename": "Product",
  "upc": "B00005N5PF"
}
```

These are the representation fields that the router obtained from its Products query above.

### Resolving `Query._entities`

As a reminder, here's the definition of the `Query._entities` field that every subgraph must automatically define (unless a subgraph contributes fields to zero entities):

```graphql {2}
type Query {
  _entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
}
```

Every subgraph must also automatically define the resolver for this field. The logic for this resolver is as follows:

1. Create an empty array that will contain the entity objects to return.
2. For each entity representation included in the `representations` list:
    1. Obtain the entity's `__typename` from the representation.
    2. Pass the full representation object to whatever mechanism the library provides the subgraph developer for fetching entities of the corresponding `__typename`.
    3. Add the fetched entity object to the array of entity objects. Make sure objects are listed in the same order as their corresponding representations.
3. Return the array of entity objects.

Notice in step 2.2 above that the subgraph developer is responsible for defining logic that fetches a particular entity based on its representation. The subgraph library is responsible for providing the mechanism that developers use to specify this logic, and for automatically hooking into this mechanism in the resolver for `Query._entities`.

See the next section for more details on providing this mechanism.

### Providing a mechanism for fetching entities

When using your subgraph library, a developer must be able to specify logic for fetching a unique entity instance based on a corresponding representation of that entity. The automatically defined resolver for `Query._entities` must then hook into this logic.

For example, let's look at how Apollo Server (with the `@apollo/subgraph` library) enables this via _reference resolvers_.

In Apollo Server, developers can add a special function named `__resolveReference` to every entity type that's defined in their resolver map:

```js {4-6} title="resolvers.js"
// Products subgraph
const resolvers = {
  Product: {
    __resolveReference(productRepresentation) {
      return fetchProductByUPC(productRepresentation.upc);
    }
  },
  // ...other resolvers...
}
```

The `Query._entities` resolver iterates through the `representations` it's passed and executes the corresponding `__resolveReference` function for each one. It passes the representation object as the first parameter to the function.

The representation object passed to the reference resolver above might have the following structure:

```json
{
  "__typename": "Product",
  "upc": "B00005N5PF"
}
```

For this reference resolver, the developer calls a `fetchProductByUPC` function, passing the `upc` from the representation. This function might query a database or a REST API to fetch the entity fields of `Product` that this subgraph knows about.

Your subgraph library does not need to use this reference resolver pattern. It just needs to provide and document some pattern for defining entity-fetching logic.

## Glossary of schema additions

This section describes type and field definitions that a valid subgraph service must automatically add to its schema. These definitions are all listed above in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions).

For descriptions of added directives, see [Federation-specific GraphQL directives](/graphos/reference/federation/directives/).


### `Query` fields

#### `Query._service`

This field of the root `Query` type must return a non-nullable [`_Service` type](#type-_service).

For details, see [Enhanced introspection with `Query._service`](#enhanced-introspection-with-query_service).

#### `Query._entities`

The graph router uses this root-level `Query` field to directly fetch fields of entities defined by a subgraph.

This field must take a `representations` argument of type `[_Any!]!` (a non-nullable list of non-nullable [`_Any` scalars](#scalar-_any)). Its return type must be `[_Entity]!` (a non-nullable list of nullable objects that belong to the [`_Entity` union](#union-_entity)).

Each entry in the `representations` list  must be validated with the following rules:

- A representation must include a `__typename` string field.
- A representation must contain all fields included in the fieldset of a `@key` directive applied to the corresponding entity definition.

For details, see [Resolving entity fields with `Query._entities`](#resolving-entity-fields-with-query_entities).

### Types

#### `type _Service`

This object type must have an `sdl: String!` field, which returns the SDL of the subgraph schema as a string.

- The returned schema string must include all uses of federation-specific directives (`@key`, `@requires`, etc.).
- If supporting Federation 1, the schema must not include any definitions from [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions).

For details, see [Enhanced introspection with `Query._service`](#enhanced-introspection-with-query_service).

#### `union _Entity`

<Note>

This union type is generated dynamically based on the input subgraph schema.

</Note>

This union's possible types must include all entities that the subgraph defines. It's the return type of the `Query._entities` field, which the graph router uses to directly access a subgraph's entity fields.

For details, see [Defining the `_Entity` union](#defining-the-_entity-union).

#### `scalar _Any`

This scalar is the type used for entity representations that the graph router passes to the `Query._entities` field. An `_Any` scalar is validated by matching its `__typename` and `@key` fields against entities defined in the subgraph schema.

An `_Any` is serialized as a JSON object, like so:

```json
{
  "__typename": "Product",
  "upc": "abc123"
}
```

#### `scalar FieldSet`

This string-serialized scalar represents a set of fields that's passed to a federated directive, such as `@key`, `@requires`, or `@provides`.

Grammatically, a `FieldSet` is a [selection set](http://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Selection-Sets) minus the outermost curly braces. It can represent a single field (`"upc"`), multiple fields (`"id countryCode"`), and even nested selection sets (`"id organization { id }"`).

#### `scalar Scope`

This string-serialized scalar represents a JWT scope.

#### `scalar Policy`

This string-serialized scalar represents an authorization policy.

### Directives

See [Federation-specific GraphQL directives](/graphos/reference/federation/directives/).

Commit message:

DOC-300 clarify reqt of link directive for Fed 2

docs/source/reference/federation/subgraph-spec.mdx, after:

---
title: Apollo Federation Subgraph Specification
subtitle: Subgraph specification reference for server library developers
description: Learn about Apollo Federation 2 subgraph specifications, enhanced introspection, and entity field resolution for GraphQL server libraries.
---

import LinkDirective from '../../../shared/link-directive.mdx';

This content is provided for developers adding federated subgraph support to a GraphQL server library, and for anyone curious about the inner workings of federation. You do not need to read this if you're building a supergraph with existing [subgraph-compatible libraries](/graphos/reference/federation/compatible-subgraphs), such as Apollo Server.

Servers that are partially or fully compatible with this specification are tracked in Apollo's [subgraph compatibility repository](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-federation-subgraph-compatibility).

For a GraphQL service to operate as an Apollo Federation 2 subgraph, it must do all of the following:

- Automatically extend its schema with all definitions listed in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions)
- Correctly resolve the `Query._service` [enhanced introspection field](#fetch-service-capabilities)
- Provide a mechanism for subgraph developers to resolve entity fields via the [`Query._entities` field](#resolving-entity-fields-with-query_entities)
- Apply the [`@link` directive to the `schema` type](#apply-link-directive)

Each of these requirements is described in the sections below.

## Subgraph schema additions

A subgraph must automatically add all of the following definitions to its GraphQL schema. The purpose of each definition is described in [Glossary of schema additions](#glossary-of-schema-additions).

<Note>

If your GraphQL server library is code-first instead of schema-first (i.e., it adds schema definitions programmatically instead of via static SDL), use whatever API is appropriate for your library to generate these definitions on startup.

</Note>

```graphql {1-4}
# ⚠️ This definition must be created dynamically. The union
#   must include every object type in the schema that uses
#   the @key directive (i.e., all federated entities).
union _Entity

scalar _Any
scalar FieldSet
scalar link__Import
scalar federation__ContextFieldValue
scalar federation__Scope
scalar federation__Policy

enum link__Purpose {
  """
  `SECURITY` features provide metadata necessary to securely resolve fields.
  """
  SECURITY

  """
  `EXECUTION` features provide metadata necessary for operation execution.
  """
  EXECUTION
}

type _Service {
  sdl: String!
}

extend type Query {
  _entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
  _service: _Service!
}

directive @external on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT
directive @requires(fields: FieldSet!) on FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @provides(fields: FieldSet!) on FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @key(fields: FieldSet!, resolvable: Boolean = true) repeatable on OBJECT | INTERFACE
directive @link(url: String!, as: String, for: link__Purpose, import: [link__Import]) repeatable on SCHEMA
directive @shareable repeatable on OBJECT | FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @inaccessible on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT | INTERFACE | UNION | ARGUMENT_DEFINITION | SCALAR | ENUM | ENUM_VALUE | INPUT_OBJECT | INPUT_FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @tag(name: String!) repeatable on FIELD_DEFINITION | INTERFACE | OBJECT | UNION | ARGUMENT_DEFINITION | SCALAR | ENUM | ENUM_VALUE | INPUT_OBJECT | INPUT_FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @override(from: String!) on FIELD_DEFINITION
directive @composeDirective(name: String!) repeatable on SCHEMA
directive @interfaceObject on OBJECT
directive @authenticated on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT | INTERFACE | SCALAR | ENUM
directive @requiresScopes(scopes: [[federation__Scope!]!]!) on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT | INTERFACE | SCALAR | ENUM
directive @policy(policies: [[federation__Policy!]!]!) on FIELD_DEFINITION | OBJECT | INTERFACE | SCALAR | ENUM
directive @context(name: String!) repeatable on INTERFACE | OBJECT | UNION
directive @fromContext(field: ContextFieldValue) on ARGUMENT_DEFINITION

# This definition is required only for libraries that don't support
# GraphQL's built-in `extend` keyword
directive @extends on OBJECT | INTERFACE
```

## Enhanced introspection with `Query._service`

Some federated graph routers can compose their supergraph schema dynamically at runtime. To do so, a graph router first executes the following enhanced introspection query on each of its subgraphs to obtain all subgraph schemas:

```graphql
query {
  _service {
    sdl
  }
}
```

<Caution>

Apollo strongly recommends against dynamic composition in the graph router. Dynamic composition can cause unexpected downtime if composition fails on router startup. Nevertheless, supporting this use case is still a requirement for subgraph libraries.

</Caution>

### Differences from built-in introspection

The "enhanced" introspection query above differs from [the GraphQL spec's built-in introspection query](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Schema-Introspection) in the following ways:

- The returned schema representation is a string instead of a `__Schema` object.
- The returned schema string includes all uses of [federation-specific directives](/graphos/reference/federation/directives/), such as `@key`.
    - The built-in introspection query's response does not include the uses of any directives.
    - The graph router requires these federation-specific directives to perform composition successfully.
-  If a subgraph server "disables introspection", the enhanced introspection query is still available.

<Note>

The `_service` field is not included in the composed supergraph schema. For security reasons, it's intended solely for use by the graph router.

</Note>

### Required resolvers for introspection

To support the enhanced introspection query, a subgraph service must define resolvers for the following fields:

```graphql {2,6}
extend type Query {
  _service: _Service!
}

type _Service {
  sdl: String!
}
```

`Query._service` returns a `_Service` object, which in turn has a single field, `sdl` (short for schema definition language). The `sdl` field returns a string representation of the subgraph's schema.

The returned `sdl` string has the following requirements:

- It must include all uses of all federation-specific directives, such as `@key`.
    - All of these directives are shown in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions).
- If supporting Federation 1, `sdl` must omit all automatically added definitions from [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions), such as `Query._service` and `_Service.sdl`!
    - If your library is only supporting Federation 2, `sdl` can include these defintions.

For example, consider this Federation 2 subgraph schema:

```graphql title="schema.graphql"
extend schema
  @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.3",
        import: ["@key"])

type Query {
  me: User
}

type User @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
}
```

The value returned for the `sdl` field should include all of this information, including directives (excess whitespace can be removed).

## Resolving entity fields with `Query._entities`

In a federated supergraph, an _entity_ is an object type that can define different fields across multiple subgraphs. You can identify an entity in a schema by its use of the `@key` directive.

In the following example, the `Product` entity defines its fields across the Products and Reviews subgraphs:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  name: String!
}
```


```graphql title="Reviews subgraph"
type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  avgRating: Int!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

If a subgraph contributes any fields to an entity, it must also provide the graph router direct access to the values of those fields. To support this, a subgraph library must do the following:

- Define the `_Entity` union type, which must include every entity type that the subgraph contributes fields to
- Provide a mechanism that enables a subgraph developer to identify and return a unique entity instance based on its `@key` fields
- Define the `Query._entities` field and resolve it using the mechanism provided to the subgraph developer

These requirements are described further in the sections below.

### Defining the `_Entity` union

The `_Entity` union type is the only schema definition in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions) that a subgraph must generate dynamically based on the schema it's provided. All other definitions are static and can be added exactly as shown.

The `_Entity` union must include all entity types that are defined in the subgraph schema, except entities with a `@key` that sets `resolvable: false`.

<Note>

If a subgraph defines zero applicable entity types, then it should not define the `_Entity` union.

</Note>

#### Example

Consider this subgraph schema:

```graphql title="Reviews subgraph"
type Review @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  body: String
  author: User
  product: Product
}

type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  reviews: [Review!]!
}

type User @key(fields: "email", resolvable: false) {
  email: String!
}
```

All three of the types in this subgraph schema are entities (note their `@key` directives). However, the `User` entity's `@key` sets `resolvable: false`. Therefore, the subgraph library should add the following `_Entity` union definition to the schema:

```graphql
# Omits `User` because its @key sets resolvable: false
union _Entity = Review | Product
```

The `_Entity` union is used by the `Query._entities` field, which is covered next.

### Understanding `Query._entities`

If a subgraph contributes fields to at least one entity, it must automatically define and correctly resolve the `Query._entities` field:

```graphql {2}
type Query {
  _entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
}
```

<Note>

If a subgraph doesn't define any entity types, then it should not define the `Query._entities` field.

</Note>

The graph router uses this entry point to directly fetch fields of entity objects. It combines those fields with other fields of the same entity that are returned by other subgraphs.

The `Query._entities` field takes a required `representations` argument, which is a list of entity representations. A representation is an object that contains all fields from one of an entity's `@key`s, plus that entity's `__typename` field. These are the fields that a subgraph requires to uniquely identify a particular instance of an entity.

Each item in the `representations` list is an `_Any` scalar. This is a federation-specific scalar defined in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions). This scalar is serialized as a generic JSON object, which enables the graph router to include representations of different entities in the same query, all of which can have a different shape.

Here's an example `_Any` representation for a `Product` entity:

```json
{
  "__typename": "Product",
  "upc": "abc123"
}
```

The `Query._entities` field must return a list of entity objects that correspond to the provided representations, in the exact same order. Entries in the list can be null if no entity exists for a provided representation.

#### Example

Let's say a supergraph includes two subgraphs with the following schemas:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Products"
type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  name: String!
}

type Query {
  topProducts: [Product!]!
}
```


```graphql title="Reviews"
type Product @key(fields: "upc") {
  upc: String!
  reviews: [Review!]!
}

type Review {
  score: Int!
  description: String!
}
```

</CodeColumns>

With these subgraph schemas, a client can execute the following query against the graph router:

```graphql
query GetTopProductReviews {
  topProducts {
    reviews {
      description
    }
  }
}
```

To resolve this query, the graph router starts by sending the following query to the Products subgraph, because that's where the top-level `Query.topProducts` field is defined:

```graphql
query {
  topProducts {
    __typename
    upc
  }
}
```

Notice that this query includes `Product.__typename` and `Product.upc`, even though those fields aren't included in the original client query. The graph router knows that these two fields are used in a `Product` type's representation, which it will use to fetch the remaining fields from the Reviews subgraph.

After getting this result from the Products subgraph, the router can send this followup query to the Reviews subgraph:

```graphql
query ($_representations: [_Any!]!) {
  _entities(representations: $_representations) {
    ... on Product {
      reviews {
        description
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Notice that this query uses inline fragment matching (`... on Product`), because the return type of `Query._entities` is the `_Entity` union type.

Each entry that the router includes in the `$_representations` list variable has the following shape:

```json
{
  "__typename": "Product",
  "upc": "B00005N5PF"
}
```

These are the representation fields that the router obtained from its Products query above.

### Resolving `Query._entities`

As a reminder, here's the definition of the `Query._entities` field that every subgraph must automatically define (unless a subgraph contributes fields to zero entities):

```graphql {2}
type Query {
  _entities(representations: [_Any!]!): [_Entity]!
}
```

Every subgraph must also automatically define the resolver for this field. The logic for this resolver is as follows:

1. Create an empty array that will contain the entity objects to return.
2. For each entity representation included in the `representations` list:
    1. Obtain the entity's `__typename` from the representation.
    2. Pass the full representation object to whatever mechanism the library provides the subgraph developer for fetching entities of the corresponding `__typename`.
    3. Add the fetched entity object to the array of entity objects. Make sure objects are listed in the same order as their corresponding representations.
3. Return the array of entity objects.

Notice in step 2.2 above that the subgraph developer is responsible for defining logic that fetches a particular entity based on its representation. The subgraph library is responsible for providing the mechanism that developers use to specify this logic, and for automatically hooking into this mechanism in the resolver for `Query._entities`.

See the next section for more details on providing this mechanism.

### Providing a mechanism for fetching entities

When using your subgraph library, a developer must be able to specify logic for fetching a unique entity instance based on a corresponding representation of that entity. The automatically defined resolver for `Query._entities` must then hook into this logic.

For example, let's look at how Apollo Server (with the `@apollo/subgraph` library) enables this via _reference resolvers_.

In Apollo Server, developers can add a special function named `__resolveReference` to every entity type that's defined in their resolver map:

```js {4-6} title="resolvers.js"
// Products subgraph
const resolvers = {
  Product: {
    __resolveReference(productRepresentation) {
      return fetchProductByUPC(productRepresentation.upc);
    }
  },
  // ...other resolvers...
}
```

The `Query._entities` resolver iterates through the `representations` it's passed and executes the corresponding `__resolveReference` function for each one. It passes the representation object as the first parameter to the function.

The representation object passed to the reference resolver above might have the following structure:

```json
{
  "__typename": "Product",
  "upc": "B00005N5PF"
}
```

For this reference resolver, the developer calls a `fetchProductByUPC` function, passing the `upc` from the representation. This function might query a database or a REST API to fetch the entity fields of `Product` that this subgraph knows about.

Your subgraph library does not need to use this reference resolver pattern. It just needs to provide and document some pattern for defining entity-fetching logic.

## Apply @link directive

<LinkDirective />

## Glossary of schema additions

This section describes type and field definitions that a valid subgraph service must automatically add to its schema. These definitions are all listed above in [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions).

For descriptions of added directives, see [Federation-specific GraphQL directives](/graphos/reference/federation/directives/).


### `Query` fields

#### `Query._service`

This field of the root `Query` type must return a non-nullable [`_Service` type](#type-_service).

For details, see [Enhanced introspection with `Query._service`](#enhanced-introspection-with-query_service).

#### `Query._entities`

The graph router uses this root-level `Query` field to directly fetch fields of entities defined by a subgraph.

This field must take a `representations` argument of type `[_Any!]!` (a non-nullable list of non-nullable [`_Any` scalars](#scalar-_any)). Its return type must be `[_Entity]!` (a non-nullable list of nullable objects that belong to the [`_Entity` union](#union-_entity)).

Each entry in the `representations` list  must be validated with the following rules:

- A representation must include a `__typename` string field.
- A representation must contain all fields included in the fieldset of a `@key` directive applied to the corresponding entity definition.

For details, see [Resolving entity fields with `Query._entities`](#resolving-entity-fields-with-query_entities).

### Types

#### `type _Service`

This object type must have an `sdl: String!` field, which returns the SDL of the subgraph schema as a string.

- The returned schema string must include all uses of federation-specific directives (`@key`, `@requires`, etc.).
- If supporting Federation 1, the schema must not include any definitions from [Subgraph schema additions](#subgraph-schema-additions).

For details, see [Enhanced introspection with `Query._service`](#enhanced-introspection-with-query_service).

#### `union _Entity`

<Note>

This union type is generated dynamically based on the input subgraph schema.

</Note>

This union's possible types must include all entities that the subgraph defines. It's the return type of the `Query._entities` field, which the graph router uses to directly access a subgraph's entity fields.

For details, see [Defining the `_Entity` union](#defining-the-_entity-union).

#### `scalar _Any`

This scalar is the type used for entity representations that the graph router passes to the `Query._entities` field. An `_Any` scalar is validated by matching its `__typename` and `@key` fields against entities defined in the subgraph schema.

An `_Any` is serialized as a JSON object, like so:

```json
{
  "__typename": "Product",
  "upc": "abc123"
}
```

#### `scalar FieldSet`

This string-serialized scalar represents a set of fields that's passed to a federated directive, such as `@key`, `@requires`, or `@provides`.

Grammatically, a `FieldSet` is a [selection set](http://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Selection-Sets) minus the outermost curly braces. It can represent a single field (`"upc"`), multiple fields (`"id countryCode"`), and even nested selection sets (`"id organization { id }"`).

#### `scalar Scope`

This string-serialized scalar represents a JWT scope.

#### `scalar Policy`

This string-serialized scalar represents an authorization policy.

### Directives

See [Federation-specific GraphQL directives](/graphos/reference/federation/directives/).
